1.
If you are sick when visiting the clinic, please sanitize your hands and wear a mask within office spaces.

2.
Yes, medical grade masks are available at all times in the clinics.

3.
To make an appointment at the Health & Counselling clinics, you can book for in-person, phone, or virtual services. For more information on hours, location, and booking, refer to the health services page. Note that same-day access is limited, and you may experience wait times for medical appointments.

4.
The SFU medical clinics provide medical services to students currently enrolled in classes, including in-person or phone/virtual consultations with healthcare providers and nurses for a variety of concerns.

5.
Same-day access is limited.

6.
No, a doctor's note is not required for minor short-term illnesses (typically lasting 1–5 days). Students should use the self-declaration form for absences during this period.

7.
If you need to be absent for an extended period, you should be prepared to provide additional medical documentation.

8.
Students are encouraged to connect with their healthcare providers or reach out to Health & Counselling Services for support and consultation if needed.

9.
All SFU students are required to have medical insurance from the BC Medical Services Plan (BC MSP).

10.
For instructions on how to apply for BC MSP, and information on International Student coverage, please see SFU's Medical Insurance page.

11.
Yes, all records within Health & Counselling are confidential. Personal information can only be released outside the center with your written consent, except in life-threatening emergencies or as required by law and/or public health regulations.

12.
Your personal information may be shared in the following circumstances: 

1. When necessary for your care within Health & Counselling Services.
2. In life-threatening emergencies.
3. As required by law and/or public health regulations.
4. With your written consent when releasing information outside the centre.

13.
If you are not taking classes this term at SFU, you should visit the designated page for health resources.

14.
Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615  
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200

15.
No Show & Late Cancellation Fees will be reinstated as of October 1, 2024.

