1.
1. STI testing  
2. Sexual health information  
3. Contraceptive options  
4. HPV vaccination  
5. Pregnancy testing and options  
6. Support for sexual violence  
7. UTI treatment  
8. Emergency contraception  
9. Sexual education and resources  

2.
You can get sexual health information or support by:

- Visiting Options for Sexual Health for a broad definition of sexual health.
- Booking a same-day appointment at clinics or calling the front desk.
- Accessing STI testing and sexual health information in person, by phone, or via virtual appointment with a nurse or physician.
- Visiting websites such as www.optionsforsexualhealth.org, www.getcheckedonline.com, www.checkhimout.ca, and www.smartsexresource.com for credible information.
- Contacting the Health Initiative for Men for resources aimed at strengthening the health of gay men.

3.
STI testing options include in-person appointments, phone consultations, or virtual appointments with a nurse or physician. Additionally, free and confidential online STI testing services are provided by the BCCDC at www.getcheckedonline.com.

4.
Yes, you can book a same-day appointment at the clinics.

5.
The full cost of many prescription contraceptives for BC residents can now be covered with a prescription.

6.
Vaccines for Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, and HPV (Gardasil-9) are offered.

7.
PrEP/PEP can be prescribed by doctors for free if you are eligible. You can pick up the prescription at the clinics. Eligibility criteria may apply, and it's best to consult with a healthcare provider for specific details.

8.
HPV testing

9.
You can get the HPV vaccine (Gardasil-9) by booking an appointment with or speaking to a nurse. The recommended dosage is a series of 3 doses. If you have not completed your HPV vaccine series, you may be eligible for a publicly funded vaccine.

10.
Symptoms can include burning, pain or discomfort when you pass urine, and frequent urination.

11.
To obtain general contraceptive options, please book an appointment with a doctor by calling the clinics.

12.
Yes, the Emergency Contraceptive Pill/Plan B is available in many BC pharmacies without a prescription from a doctor.

13.
Pregnancy testing is available by appointment in clinic. Pregnancy tests are also available at the SFSS Women's Centre, and can be mailed to you by request.

14.
1. Options for Sexual Health - www.optionsforsexualhealth.org
2. BCCDC - www.getcheckedonline.com (free and confidential online STI testing services)
3. Health Initiative for Men - www.checkhimout.ca
4. Sex and U - https://www.sexandu.ca/ (credible sexual education and information)
5. Smart Sex Resource - www.smartsexresource.com (sexual health education and resources)

15.
BCCDC (British Columbia Centre for Disease Control) provides free and confidential online STI testing services.

