1.
Visitors to the campus of Simon Fraser University and their dependents.

2.
$2.30 per person per day.

3.
40 days

4.
The GuardMe Student Support Program offers:
- 24/7 access to mental health support
- Counseling services with experienced professionals
- Culturally sensitive support
- Crisis intervention services
- Early intervention promotion for mental health challenges

5.
You can contact the keep.meSAFE sales team by emailing [email protected] or visiting www.keepmesafe.org.

6.
The TELUS Student Support App provides 24/7 access to mental health support and allows students to chat directly with a counsellor.

7.
Yes, the GMSSP is completely confidential within the limits of the law.

8.
You can access Canadian doctors through mobileDOCTOR by GuardMe by connecting with doctors on Maple, a telemedicine company, via your phone, tablet, or computer anytime, anywhere. You will need your policy number and date of birth, and you can have your consultation by text, video, or audio chat.

9.
You will need your policy number and date of birth.

10.
Yes, doctors can diagnose injuries and illnesses, write prescriptions, and provide lab requisitions through the mobileDOCTOR service.

11.
In an emergency situation, please call 911 immediately.

12.
GuardMe stores all student data exclusively in Canadian data centres, adhering to some of the world's strictest privacy laws. They utilize advanced encryption and continuously invest in security innovations. GuardMe has also achieved ISO and SOC 2 compliance in both security and privacy.

13.
keep.meSAFE promotes mental health support for students by offering early intervention and 24/7 access to mental health support through its innovative Student Support Program (SSP). The program provides linguistically and culturally matched licensed clinicians, ensuring students feel comfortable seeking help.

14.
- 24/7 multilingual mental health support
- Virtual counselling
- Crisis intervention services

15.
Yes, only eligible prescriptions and lab requisitions are covered by guard.me and can only be provided if you are in Canada.

16.
To learn more about the GuardMe Student Support Program, you can visit www.gmssp.org, call 1-844-451-9700, or download the TELUS Student Support App from the Apple App Store or Google Play.

