1.
Primary and Secondary Medical Insurance.

2.
Primary medical insurance covers services that require medical attention, such as visits to doctors, hospital stays, and diagnostic medical testing.

3.
Yes, primary medical insurance is legally required in British Columbia.

4.
Canadian students who do not plan to take up permanent residence in BC may be able to remain on their home province's medical plan. If they are not able to remain on their home province coverage, they must apply for BC's Medical Services Plan (MSP).

5.
Canadian citizens or permanent residents moving to Canada must apply for the BC Medical Services Plan (MSP) and ensure they have medical insurance during the waiting period coverage gap.

6.
The cost of the Medical Services Plan (MSP) premiums was eliminated as of January 1, 2020.

7.
To apply for BC MSP, complete the MSP Application online at the BC MSP website. You can apply as soon as you arrive in BC.

8.
The wait period for new residents enrolled in BC MSP is 2-3 months.

9.
Once enrolled, BC MSP will mail you a BC Services Card. When visiting a health clinic or hospital, you will be asked to show your BC Services Card as proof of enrolment. You will not be required to pay for the visit, they will bill BC MSP directly.

10.
Secondary medical insurance generally covers vision care, prescription drugs, dental, and extended health care.

11.
Students may opt out of the SFSS Health and Dental Plan if they have existing secondary medical insurance coverage in BC. To opt out, they must upload proof of coverage on the SFSS Health and Dental website during the Change-of-Coverage Period.

12.
The SFSS Health and Dental Plan is designed to complement primary medical coverage (i.e., MSP) and includes services not covered by primary coverage, such as vision and dental care. Eligible students are automatically covered by and billed for applicable portions of the student plan, except if entering in the summer term. Note that plan benefits are only accessible within Canada.

13.
Claims can be submitted online, through a mobile app, or by mail. Please allow up to two weeks for claims to be processed.

14.
Please allow up to two weeks for claims to be processed.

15.
You can reach a representative by calling the Care Centre at 236-427-8123, Monday to Friday from 9 am to 5 pm. Alternatively, you can visit the Studentcare Care Office in-person at the Student Union Building (SUB) 2301 on SFU Burnaby campus, Monday to Friday from 9 am to 5 pm.

