1.
guard.me@SFU is a short term primary medical insurance coverage designed to help transition students to Canada while they wait for their BC Medical Services Plan (MSP).

2.
The mandatory primary medical insurance plan through guard.me@SFU is 4 months long.

3.
Yes, you can opt out of guard.me@SFU if you are studying outside of Canada.

4.
You can opt out of guard.me@SFU if you are studying outside of Canada or if you have one of the eligible plans. Most exchange students are not eligible to opt out.

5.
To opt out of guard.me@SFU, visit their website, click the appropriate category, and follow the opt-out instructions. Check the opt-out deadlines on their site. Note that most exchange students are not eligible to opt out.

6.
$281 for your first term at SFU*

7.
You will receive your Healthcare Access Card (HAC) at the beginning of the semester in a welcome email from guard.me@SFU.

8.
When visiting any of the SFU Health Clinics, print out a copy of your Healthcare Access Card (HAC) from the guard.me@SFU website. The HAC is your proof of insurance containing your coverage information. They will collect a copy for each visit and will directly bill guard.me@SFU on your behalf. No additional claim is required.

For clinics that do not allow direct billing, you will need to pay upfront for the visit. Keep copies of all your payment receipts. To submit a claim, please visit guard.me@SFU to create an online account and upload copies of your receipts.

9.
You may be eligible for a refund of the unused portion of your insurance if you have not made a claim and there is more than 1 month of coverage remaining when you apply through guard.me@SFU. Your application for a partial reimbursement must be received by guard.me@SFU before the last month of the term (before April 1, August 1, and December 1). If approved, your partial refund will be applied to your SFU account.

10.
Yes, you may be eligible for a refund of the unused portion of your guard.me@SFU insurance if you have not made a claim and there is more than 1 month of coverage remaining when you apply. Your application for a partial reimbursement must be received by guard.me@SFU before the last month of the term (before April 1, August 1, and December 1).

11.
The BC Medical Services Plan (MSP) is a medical insurance plan for students staying in British Columbia (BC) for 6 months or longer. It provides primary medical coverage, but there is a wait period of 2-3 months for newcomers before the coverage begins. During this waiting period, students are automatically enrolled in the guard.me@SFU plan for short-term coverage. Once enrolled in MSP, students will receive a BC Services Card and will not have to pay for visits to health clinics or hospitals, as these will be billed directly to BC MSP.

12.
To apply for BC MSP, complete the MSP Application online at the BC MSP website. You may also complete the MSP Application Enrolment form by mail and send it directly to BC MSP. You can apply as soon as you arrive in BC.

13.
The waiting period for BC MSP coverage to begin is 2-3 months.

14.
Once enrolled, BC MSP will mail you a BC Services Card along with an invoice to pay. Payments may be made monthly or in advance, directly to BC MSP, not through SFU. When visiting a health clinic or hospital, you will show your BC Services Card as proof of enrolment, and the clinic will bill BC MSP directly, meaning you will not be required to pay for the visit.

15.
If you are a returning student traveling back to BC, in order to be covered during the wait period for BC MSP, you may purchase a private medical insurance plan. Please contact International Services for Students about temporary medical insurance options to cover the MSP waiting period.

16.
You will not receive a secondary medical insurance plan through SFU.

17.
You can contact guard.me@SFU at customercare@guard.me.

