1.
Yes, instructors can modify course requirements for reasons like illness.

2.
A "sick note," also known as a "medical note," is a document that may be requested by instructors or academic heads to help them make decisions regarding modifications to course requirements, such as midterms or assignments, due to special reasons like illness or personal issues. However, the final decision about whether a modification is required or permitted rests with the instructor, regardless of what is stated on the sick note. The physicians at Health & Counselling or elsewhere do not have the authority to exempt students from exams or assignments.

3.
No, physicians at Health & Counselling do not have the authority to exempt students from exams, assignments, etc.

4.
Undergraduate students should review the SFU Student Services withdrawals policy and discuss extensions, deferrals, and withdrawals with their professors and/or teaching assistants before requesting documentation from staff at Health & Counselling.

5.
Issues that require a relevant management plan to be developed with HCS staff include significant personal issues impacting academic performance, such as illness or personal issues, and the impact of a permanent disability.

6.
Fraser International College's policy states that you do not need a sick note from a doctor for minor, short-term illnesses (like a cold or flu) that prevent you from attending class or writing an exam.

7.
Graduate students manage responsibilities outside of their studies by adhering to policies that help them address complex life issues such as work, family, and health, which may interrupt their program of study and research. They are encouraged to inform their graduate programs and senior supervisors of impending problems and interruptions. Additionally, they should review the graduate students' leaves and withdrawal policy for further information.

8.
If students find themselves unable to meet their course commitments due to something beyond their control, they should follow the process outlined by their instructor. If no process has been outlined, they should inform their graduate programs and senior supervisors of impending problems and interruptions. Additionally, they should contact the instructor or departmental chair for decisions regarding withdrawals or deferrals, as Health & Counselling staff can only provide supporting documentation.

9.
The final decision on withdrawals or deferrals is made by the instructor or departmental chair.

10.
Students can contact the Dean of Graduate Studies Office at 778-782-3042.

11.
Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615  
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200  
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

12.
Students should review the graduate students leaves and withdrawal policy for information on leaves and withdrawals in graduate studies.

