1.
guard.me@SFU is a short term primary medical insurance coverage that provides comprehensive primary medical coverage during your exchange duration. You will be automatically enrolled in this plan after course enrollment.

2.
$281 per term

3.
Students are automatically enrolled in guard.me@SFU after course enrollment.

4.
Yes, you can opt out of (cancel) guard.me@SFU temporary medical insurance plan if you are studying outside of Canada or if you have one of the eligible plans. Most exchange students are not eligible to opt out.

5.
If you stay in BC past the dates of your guard.me@SFU coverage, you will need to purchase additional coverage directly from guard.me Canada or another insurance provider.

6.
You will receive a welcome email from guard.me@SFU at the beginning of the semester. This email will include a link to log into your account to view your policy details. You can view and download your Healthcare Access Card (HAC), which is your proof of insurance and will have your name, student number, policy number, and policy start and end date. You can also log in via the Guard.me@SFU website.

7.
The Healthcare Access Card (HAC) is your proof of insurance containing your coverage information. It can be used for direct billing at some pharmacies, medical clinics, and dental offices.

8.
When visiting any of the SFU Health Clinics, print out a copy of your Healthcare Access Card (HAC) from the guard.me@SFU website. The HAC is your proof of insurance containing your coverage information. They will collect a copy for each visit and will directly bill guard.me@SFU on your behalf. No additional claim is required. 

For clinics that do not allow direct billing, you will need to pay upfront for the visit. Keep copies of all your payment receipts. To submit a claim, visit guard.me@SFU to create an online account and upload copies of your receipts.

9.
The undergraduate Simon Fraser Student Society Health and Dental Plan is in place to complement primary medical coverage (i.e., MSP). Services not covered by primary coverage (i.e., vision and dental care) are included in the SFSS plan. Eligible students are automatically covered by and billed for applicable portions of the student plan (except if entering in summer term). Note that Plan benefits are only accessible within Canada.

10.
To opt out of the SFSS Health and Dental Plan, you need to provide proof that you are covered by an equivalent extended health and/or dental plan during the Change-of-Coverage Period. Visit their website for more information.

11.
The Graduate Student Society (GSS) health and dental plan is in place to complement primary medical coverage (i.e., BC MSP). Services not included by primary coverage (i.e., vision and dental care) are included in the GSS plan. Eligible students are automatically covered by and billed for applicable portions of the student plan (except if entering in the summer term). Note that plan benefits are only accessible within Canada.

12.
To opt out of the GSS extended health plan, you must have existing secondary coverage in BC. You will be required to upload proof of coverage on the GSS Health and Dental website during the Change-of-Coverage Period.

13.
You can claim online, through a mobile app, or by mail. Please allow up to two weeks for claims to be processed. For claim forms and more information, please visit the SFSS Health and Dental website or the GSS Health and Dental website.

14.
You can reach a representative by calling the Care Centre at 236-427-8123, Mon. - Fri. from 9 am to 5 pm. Or you can visit the Studentcare Care Office in-person, which is located at the Student Union Building (SUB) 2301 on SFU Burnaby campus, Mon. - Fri. from 9 am to 5 pm.

15.
Students beginning their term in the Fall and completing their studies in December should contact Studentcare directly to learn about their options for the remainder of the plan, and they should do so prior to the Spring Change-of-Coverage period. Students beginning their term in the Spring cannot opt out mid-year; their coverage will remain active until August 31st of that year.

