1.
A Hormone Readiness Assessment is an evaluation conducted by Health & Counselling doctors to help individuals decide if hormone therapy is suitable for them.

2.
To decide if hormone therapy is right for you, you can undergo a Hormone Readiness Assessment conducted by Health & Counselling doctors. If you choose to start hormone therapy, you will receive step-by-step guidance. Additionally, consult with a doctor at the clinic if you are interested in hormone injections and book an appointment with a nurse for weekly injections or to learn self-injection techniques.

3.
Oral estrogens, injectable estrogens, testosterone blockers, progesterone therapy, testosterone.

4.
1. Find support from doctors and nurses to make informed choices.
2. Undergo a Hormone Readiness Assessment with Health & Counselling doctors.
3. Decide if hormone therapy is right for you.
4. If you choose to start, you will be guided step by step for oral or injectable estrogens, testosterone blockers, progesterone therapy, or testosterone.
5. Talk to a doctor at the clinic about receiving hormone injections.
6. Book with a nurse for weekly injections or to learn to self-inject.

5.
Talk to a doctor at the clinic and book with a nurse for weekly injections and/or to learn to self-inject.

6.
Yes, you can learn to self-inject hormone therapy. Talk to a doctor at the clinic and book with a nurse to learn how to self-inject.

7.
Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615  
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200  
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

8.
Health & Counselling doctors for Hormone Readiness Assessment, guidance for hormone therapy, weekly injections with a nurse, self-injection training, Out On Campus Resources Guide, contact numbers for Burnaby, Vancouver, and Surrey campuses.

9.
Burnaby campus, Vancouver campus, Surrey campus.

10.
Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

