1.
Primary and Secondary Medical Insurance.

2.
Primary medical insurance covers services that require medical attention, such as visits to doctors, hospital stays, and diagnostic medical testing.

3.
Yes, primary medical insurance is legally required in British Columbia and is provided through the BC Medical Services Plan (MSP).

4.
Canadian students moving to BC from another province should check if they can remain on their home province's medical plan. If they cannot remain on their home province coverage, they must apply for BC's Medical Services Plan (MSP).

5.
Canadian citizens or permanent residents can apply for the BC Medical Services Plan (MSP) by completing the MSP Application online as soon as they arrive in BC. They must also ensure they have medical insurance during the waiting period of 2-3 months before their coverage begins.

6.
The waiting period for new residents applying for BC MSP is 2-3 months.

7.
Students can ensure they are covered during the MSP waiting period by purchasing a private medical insurance plan or by contacting International Services for Students to learn about medical insurance options.

8.
To apply for BC MSP, complete the MSP Application online. You can apply as soon as you arrive in BC. There is a wait period of 2-3 months for new residents before coverage begins. To be covered during the wait period, you may purchase a private medical insurance plan or contact International Services for Students to learn about medical insurance options.

9.
Once enrolled, BC MSP will mail you a BC Services Card. When visiting a health clinic or hospital, you will be asked to show your BC Services Card as proof of enrolment. You will not be required to pay for the visit; they will bill BC MSP directly.

10.
Secondary medical insurance generally covers vision care, prescription drugs, dental, and extended health care.

11.
Eligible SFU students receive secondary medical insurance through the SFSS/GSS Extended Health and Dental Plan.

12.
Students may opt out of the GSS Health and Dental Plan if they have existing secondary coverage in BC. To opt out, they must upload proof of coverage on the GSS Health and Dental website during the Change-of-Coverage Period.

13.
The Graduate Student Society (GSS) health and dental plan complements primary medical coverage (i.e., BC MSP). It includes services not covered by primary coverage, such as vision and dental care. Eligible students are automatically covered by and billed for applicable portions of the student plan, except if entering in the summer term. Note that plan benefits are only accessible within Canada.

14.
Students can make claims online, through a mobile app, or by mail. They should allow up to two weeks for claims to be processed. For claim forms and more information, they can visit the GSS Health and Dental website.

15.
Students can contact a representative by calling the Care Centre at 236-427-8123, Mon. - Fri. from 9 am to 5 pm, or visit the Studentcare Care Office in-person at the Student Union Building (SUB) 2301 on SFU Burnaby campus, Mon. - Fri. from 9 am to 5 pm.

