1.
Make an appointment with an academic advisor as soon as possible.

2.
When you begin your first term at SFU, you are considered to be in Good Academic Standing. However, once you have attempted nine units, your record is evaluated at the end of each term and your standing may change. If you have attempted at least 9 units in one or more terms and your cumulative grade point average (CGPA) is below 2.00, you will be placed on Academic Probation (OAP). Even if you pass every course, sustained performance at the marginal pass level (C- or D) will lead to a CGPA below 2.00 and result in being placed on Academic Probation (OAP). Students who are on Academic Probation may not be approved for a "Letter of Permission" (LOP) to take courses at another post-secondary institution. Your Academic Standing will be re-evaluated at the end of the next completed term, and in order to get back into Good Academic Standing (GAS), you will need to attain a 2.00 or higher in both your Term and Cumulative GPAs. You may be on Continued Academic Probation (CAP) for as long as it takes for you to attain a Term GPA of 2.00 or higher. If you are on CAP, you may repeat courses you have failed. To graduate, you need a CGPA of 2.00 or higher. You cannot graduate if you are on Academic Probation indefinitely.

3.
To get off Academic Probation, you need to attain a Term GPA of 2.00 or higher and a Cumulative GPA (CGPA) of 2.00 or higher by the end of the next completed term.

4.
You may be on Continued Academic Probation (CAP) for as long as it takes for you to attain a Term GPA of 2.00 or higher. You cannot graduate if you are on Academic Probation indefinitely.

5.
You can seek assistance from an academic advisor within Student Services at SFU. Academic advisors are available to offer advice on your academic program and referrals to various supports and workshops on campus. You can book an appointment to speak with an academic advisor through the Contact Us page on the SFU website.

6.
You will be Required to Withdraw (RTW) from SFU if your Term GPA is below 2.00 AND your CGPA is also below 2.00 while on Academic Probation (OAP). If you are RTW, you may not enroll in classes at SFU. If already enrolled for the next term, your enrolment will be cancelled and any fees paid for that term will be refunded upon application for a tuition refund.

7.
To get back into SFU if you are Required to Withdraw (RTW), you have two options:

1. Take the opportunity to resolve the factors that may have affected your studies. Then, apply for readmission by the deadlines listed on the admission website. Application is done online at the EducationPlanner BC website.

2. Participate in the Back on Track Program, which is a three-term commitment designed to help students achieve academic success through personalized academic advice and support.

8.
If you are on Extended Withdrawal (PW) and seeking readmission to SFU, you will be eligible after completing ONE of the following options at another postsecondary institution:

1. Achieve the minimum GPA required for acceptance.
2. Consult the BC Transfer Guide to determine course equivalency.
3. Apply for readmission by the deadlines listed on the admission website.
4. Participate in the Back on Track Program.

9.
- Talk to your instructor to get feedback on your performance and explore improvement options.
- Consider tutoring and other available resources, such as study skill classes and workshops.
- Know the deadlines for withdrawing from courses.
- Assess the impact of withdrawing on your current or future financial assistance and consult a Financial Aid Advisor if necessary.

10.
If you have passed the deadline for dropping courses on your own, you may be eligible to apply for a Withdrawal Under Extenuating Circumstances (WE). Approval is not guaranteed; however, if your application is approved, a notation of WE will appear on your transcript.

11.
Yes, you may not repeat more than five courses in a degree program. No individual course may be repeated more than once without permission from the department offering the course. If you wish to enroll in a course for the third time, you should consult an advisor in the department.

12.
If you enroll at another post-secondary institution in a repeat course already completed at SFU and complete the course with a passing grade, the transfer credit will remain on your academic record as a repeat, with a zero unit value. If the course is completed with a failing grade or is dropped, the transfer credit will remain on your academic record. A department may permit credit to count for both a transfer course and an SFU course if the course content is judged to be sufficiently different. Current limits on course repeats at SFU will apply to repeated transfer courses, and this policy will not affect the method of calculating grade point averages.

13.
The Back on Track Program at SFU is a three-term commitment designed to help students achieve academic success. It provides a guided analysis of areas of difficulty, personalized academic advice and support, and career advising. The majority of students who participate in this program can go on to successfully complete their degree.

14.
Your cumulative grade point average (CGPA) affects your academic standing in several ways:

1. If your CGPA is below 2.00 after attempting at least 9 units, you will be placed on Academic Probation (OAP).
2. Sustained performance at the marginal pass level (C- or D) can lead to a CGPA below 2.00, resulting in Academic Probation.
3. To regain Good Academic Standing (GAS) after being on Academic Probation, you must achieve a CGPA of 2.00 or higher by the end of the next completed term.
4. If your CGPA remains below 2.00 while on Academic Probation, you may be Required to Withdraw (RTW) from SFU.

15.
Students can consider tutoring and other available resources such as study skill classes and workshops at the Student Learning Commons.

