1.
guard.me@SFU is a short term primary medical insurance coverage designed to provide comprehensive primary medical coverage during your exchange duration. You will be automatically enrolled in this plan after course enrollment.

2.
The guard.me@SFU coverage is for a mandatory duration of 4 months.

3.
You can opt out of the guard.me@SFU temporary medical insurance plan if you are studying outside of Canada or if you have one of the eligible plans. Most exchange students are not eligible to opt out.

4.
You can opt out of guard.me@SFU if you are studying outside of Canada or if you have one of the eligible plans. Most exchange students are not eligible to opt out.

5.
$281 per term

6.
If you stay in BC past the dates of your guard.me@SFU coverage, you will need to purchase additional coverage directly from guard.me Canada or another insurance provider.

7.
You will receive a welcome email from guard.me@SFU at the beginning of the semester. This email will include a link to log into your account to view your policy details. You can view and download your Healthcare Access Card (HAC), which is your proof of insurance and will have your name, student number, policy number, and policy start and end date. You can also log in via the Guard.me@SFU website.

8.
The Healthcare Access Card (HAC) includes your name, student number, policy number, and policy start and end date.

9.
To use your Healthcare Access Card (HAC) for direct billing, print out a copy of your HAC from the guard.me@SFU website when visiting any of the SFU Health Clinics. The clinic will collect a copy for each visit and will directly bill guard.me@SFU on your behalf. No additional claim is required.

10.
To opt out of guard.me@SFU, follow these steps:

1. Visit the guard.me@SFU website.
2. Click the appropriate category for opt-out.
3. Follow the opt-out instructions provided.
4. Check the opt-out deadlines on the website.

11.
When visiting any of the SFU Health Clinics, print out a copy of your Healthcare Access Card (HAC) from guard.me@SFU website. The HAC is your proof of insurance containing your coverage information. They will collect a copy for each visit and will directly bill guard.me@SFU on your behalf. No additional claim is required. 

For clinics that do not allow direct billing, you will need to pay upfront for the visit. Keep copies of all your payment receipts. To submit a claim, please visit guard.me@SFU to create an online account and upload copies of your receipts.

12.
If your clinic does not allow direct billing, you will need to pay upfront for the visit. Keep copies of all your payment receipts. To submit a claim, visit guard.me@SFU to create an online account and upload copies of your receipts.

13.
No, you will not receive a secondary medical insurance plan through SFU.

14.
You can find more information about guard.me@SFU on the guard.me@SFU website.

