1.
The purpose of SexandU.ca is to provide accurate, credible, and up-to-date information and education on topics related to sexual and reproductive health, addressing questions and issues around sex and sexuality that matter most to Canadians.

2.
SexandU.ca is operated by the Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of Canada (SOGC).

3.
- Questions and issues around sex and sexuality
- Lifestyle choices
- Contraception awareness
- Sexually transmitted infections
- Consent
- Decisions about contraception
- Guidance on missed or extended doses of contraception
- Latest scientific facts on sexual health topics

4.
SexandU.ca defines consent as a voluntary agreement to engage in sexual activity.

5.
- It’s a Plan: helps you and your health care provider determine the best contraception method for you.
- Stay on Schedule tool: guides you on what to do if you miss a dose or forget to take your birth control on time.

6.
Refer to the Stay on Schedule tool for guidance on what to do if you miss a dose or forget to take your birth control on time.

7.
The "Stay on Schedule" tool is your guide for knowing what to do if you miss a dose or forget to take your birth control on time.

8.
The Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of Canada (SOGC) is a professional health association representing a multidisciplinary membership of over 3,500 health professionals, including obstetricians, gynaecologists, family physicians, nurses, midwives, and allied health professionals, all working in the field of sexual and reproductive health. The Society’s mission is to promote excellence in the practice of obstetrics and gynaecology and to advance the health of women at home and around the world through leadership, advocacy, collaboration, and education. The SOGC is Canada’s leading authority on sexual and reproductive health and produces national guidelines for public and medical education.

9.
The mission of the SOGC is to promote excellence in the practice of obstetrics and gynaecology and to advance the health of women at home and around the world through leadership, advocacy, collaboration, and education.

10.
You can contact SexandU.ca with questions or requests for topics by using the contact option provided on their website.

11.
Yes, SexandU.ca provides information on sexually transmitted infections.

12.
There is a safe exit button at the top right corner of every page.

13.
Yes, the SOGC produces national guidelines for public and medical education.

14.
You can stay up to date on the latest scientific facts on sexual health topics by visiting SexandU.ca, which provides accurate, credible, and up-to-date information and education on topics related to sexual and reproductive health.

