1.
The GuardMe@SFU Insurance plan is a mandatory health insurance plan for international students studying in Canada. It becomes mandatory on September 1, 2025.

2.
If you are not in Canada and need to opt out of the GuardMe@SFU Insurance plan, you MUST complete the Out of Canada Waiver to receive a credit to your student account. The deadline to complete this opt-out waiver is September 30, 2025.

3.
September 30, 2025.

4.
1. Students not in Canada.
2. Students with valid coverage through BC Medical Services Plan (MSP).
3. Students studying at SFU under a government-sponsored scholarship program.

5.
You may be eligible for a refund of the unused portion of your insurance if you have not made a claim and there is at least 1 month of coverage remaining when you apply through guard.me. Your application for a partial reimbursement must be received by guard.me before the last month of the term (e.g., before April 1, August 1, and December 1).

6.
Proof of MSP must include a photo of your MSP card plus one of the following:
1. No additional document is required if the MSP card is issued more than 3 months prior to the start of the semester.
2. If waiting for your MSP card, submit a letter from BC MSP that includes both start and end dates of your MSP coverage.

7.
If you are waiting for your MSP card to arrive, you can submit a letter from BC MSP that includes both the start and end dates of your MSP coverage. To request the letter from MSP, please visit the BC MSP page.

8.
The keep.meSAFE Student Support Program offers 24/7 access to mental health support, promotes early intervention, and provides culturally matched licensed clinicians for students.

9.
The GuardMe Student Support Program assists students by providing support services for challenges faced when studying or living abroad. Students can contact the program anytime, day or night, to speak with a counsellor experienced in supporting the unique challenges students face.

10.
mobileDOCTOR by guard.me allows you to connect with Canadian doctors on Maple, a telemedicine company. It provides access to doctors across Canada via phone, tablet, or computer anytime, anywhere. You can consult a doctor through text, video, or audio chat. Doctors can diagnose injuries and illnesses, write prescriptions, and provide lab requisitions during the consultation. Note that eligible prescriptions and lab requisitions are covered only when you are in Canada. When outside of Canada, the service is available 24/7 for advice purposes only.

11.
The Insurer, the Plan Administrator, and/or the Claim Administrator are not responsible for the availability, quality, or results of any Medical Treatment, or for your failure to obtain Medical Treatment or transportation, and shall not be held liable for any negligence, wrongful acts, or omissions of any service providers.

12.
You can contact the keep.meSAFE sales team at [email protected] or visit www.keepmesafe.org.

13.
Yes, GMSSP is completely confidential within the limits of the law. No one, including family, friends, or professors, will know you used the program unless you choose to tell them.

14.
You can access doctors through the Maple telemedicine service by signing up for mobileDOCTOR by guard.me. You will need your policy number and date of birth. Click the “See The Doctor” button, and a Maple doctor will respond to you in minutes. Consultations can be conducted via text, video, or audio chat.

15.
You can use the mobileDOCTOR service by guard.me to connect with Canadian doctors on Maple for advice. The service is available 24/7 for advice purposes only while outside of Canada. You will need your policy number and date of birth to use the service.

