1.
guard.me@SFU is a short-term primary medical insurance coverage designed to help transition students to Canada while they wait for their BC Medical Services Plan (MSP).

2.
4 months

3.
Yes, you can opt out of guard.me@SFU temporary medical insurance plan if you are studying outside of Canada or if you have one of the eligible plans. Most exchange students are not eligible to opt out.

4.
To apply for BC Medical Services Plan (MSP), complete the MSP Application online at the specified website. Alternatively, you can complete the MSP Application Enrolment form by mail and send it directly to BC MSP. You may apply as soon as you arrive in BC.

5.
The BC MSP coverage for new residents starts after a 2-3 month waiting period.

6.
You will receive a welcome email from guard.me@SFU at the beginning of the semester. This email will include a link to log into your account to view your policy details. You can view and download your Healthcare Access Card (HAC), which is your proof of insurance and will have your name, student number, policy number, and policy start and end date. You can also log in via the Guard.me@SFU website.

7.
To opt out of guard.me@SFU, visit their website, click the appropriate category, and follow the opt-out instructions. Be mindful of the opt-out deadlines, as most exchange students are not eligible to opt out.

8.
When visiting any of the SFU Health Clinics, print out a copy of your Healthcare Access Card (HAC) from the guard.me@SFU website. The HAC is your proof of insurance containing your coverage information. They will collect a copy for each visit and will directly bill guard.me@SFU on your behalf. No additional claim is required. You can search for Guard.me preferred clinics near your location for direct billing.

For clinics that do not allow direct billing, you will need to pay upfront for the visit. Keep copies of all your payment receipts. To submit a claim, please visit guard.me@SFU to create an online account and upload copies of your receipts.

9.
Yes, you may be eligible for a refund of the unused portion of your insurance if you have not made a claim and there is more than 1 month of coverage remaining when you apply through guard.me@SFU. Your application for a partial reimbursement must be received before the last month of the term.

10.
$281 for your first term at SFU*

11.
To apply for BC MSP, complete the MSP Application online at the BC MSP website. You may also complete the MSP Application Enrolment form by mail and send it directly to BC MSP. You can apply as soon as you arrive in BC.

12.
Once enrolled, BC MSP will mail you a BC Services Card along with an invoice to pay. Payments may be made monthly or in advance, directly to BC MSP, not through SFU. When visiting a health clinic or hospital, you will be asked to show your BC Services Card as proof of enrolment, and you will not be required to pay for the visit, as they will bill BC MSP directly.

13.
The undergraduate Simon Fraser Student Society Health and Dental Plan is in place to complement primary medical coverage (i.e., MSP). Services not covered by primary coverage (i.e., vision and dental care) are included in the SFSS plan. Eligible students are automatically covered by and billed for applicable portions of the student plan (except if entering in summer term). Note that plan benefits are only accessible within Canada.

14.
To opt out of the SFSS Health and Dental Plan, you will need to provide proof that you are covered by an equivalent extended health and/or dental plan during the Change-of-Coverage Period. Visit their website for more information.

15.
To make claims under the SFSS Health and Dental Plan, you can claim online, through a mobile app, or by mail. Please allow up to two weeks for claims to be processed. For claim forms and more information, please visit the SFSS Health and Dental website.

16.
You can reach a representative by calling the Care Centre at 236-427-8123, Mon. - Fri. from 9 am to 5 pm. Or you can visit the Studentcare Care Office in-person, located at the Student Union Building (SUB) 2301 on SFU Burnaby campus, Mon. - Fri. from 9 am to 5 pm.

17.
Students beginning their term in the Fall and completing their studies in December should contact Studentcare directly to learn about their options for the remainder of the plan, and they must do so prior to the Spring Change-of-Coverage period. Students beginning their term in the Spring cannot opt out mid-year; their coverage will remain active until August 31st of that year.

18.
The Graduate Student Society (GSS) health and dental plan is in place to complement primary medical coverage (i.e., BC MSP). Services not included by primary coverage (i.e., vision and dental care) are included in the GSS plan. Eligible students are automatically covered by and billed for applicable portions of the student plan (except if entering in summer term). Note that plan benefits are only accessible within Canada.

19.
You may opt out of the GSS extended health plan if you have existing secondary coverage in BC. To opt out, you will be required to upload proof of coverage on the GSS Health and Dental website during the Change-of-Coverage Period.

20.
You can claim online, through a mobile app, or by mail. Please allow up to two weeks for claims to be processed. For claim forms and more information, please visit the GSS Health and Dental website.

