1.
As a student at SFU, you have the right to learn, study, and work in an environment that is civil, safe, and respectful of your rights, well-being, and dignity.

2.
The OSSRR can assist you by offering personalized case management for challenges affecting your academic learning or decision making, supporting you in navigating your own experiences or reporting conduct you've witnessed, and recommending further actions or reports to specific support offices as needed.

3.
- Phone: 778.782.5699
- Email: ssrr@sfu.ca
- Online: Online Form

4.
Inquiries will be monitored from 9:00am to 4:30pm Monday through Friday, excluding holidays.

5.
Call 911.

6.
- Centre for Accessible Learning
- Multifaith Centre
- Sexual Violence Support and Prevention Office
- Health and Counselling Services
- Student Support & Services

7.
To distinguish between behaviors of concern and misconduct, begin by identifying the experience or behavior you are witnessing:

1. You are uncomfortable with a student's behavior, but the student is not acting in a way that is distressed, disruptive, disturbing, or dangerous.
2. A student seems distressed in word, appearance, or action, but behavior is not disruptive.
3. A student's behavior is disruptive (e.g., yelling, refusing to follow direction, sending numerous repetitive emails or phone calls).
4. A student's behavior is disturbing (e.g., aggression not directed at specific people, destruction of property, indirect aggressive words or actions, fascination with violence).
5. A student discloses a history of violence (as participant or recipient) and/or fear of someone coming to harm them.
6. A student exhibits persistent, unwanted, or obsessive contact or other harassment (by phone, email, or in person).
7. A student expresses a direct threat to harm self or others.

8.
If you are uncomfortable with a student's behavior but the student is not acting in a way that is distressed, disruptive, disturbing, or dangerous, you should reach out for support to the Office of Student Support, Rights & Responsibilities (OSSRR). You can contact them via phone at 778.782.5699, email at ssrr@sfu.ca, or through the Online Form.

9.
If a student seems distressed in word, appearance, or action but their behavior is not disruptive, you should read the recommended response provided by the Office of Student Support, Rights & Responsibilities (OSSRR).

10.
Disruptive behavior in a classroom setting includes yelling, refusing to follow direction, and sending numerous repetitive emails or phone calls.

11.
- Aggression, though not directed at specific people
- Destruction or damage to property
- Indirect aggressive words or actions
- Fascination with violence by words or action

12.
If a student discloses a history of violence, you should: 

1. Listen to the student and provide support.
2. Encourage the student to contact the Office of Student Support, Rights & Responsibilities (OSSRR).
3. If necessary, recommend that a report be submitted to a specific support office.
4. Follow up with the OSSRR for further guidance and support.

13.
If you are experiencing persistent or unwanted contact from another student, you should reach out to the Office of Student Support, Rights & Responsibilities (OSSRR) for assistance. You can contact them by phone at 778.782.5699, via email at ssrr@sfu.ca, or by using their online form. They can provide personalized case management and guide you through the situation in accordance with SFU policies and procedures. If you feel in immediate danger, call 911.

14.
If a student expresses by word or action a direct threat to harm themselves or others, you should call 911 immediately.

