1.
Primary and Secondary Medical Insurance

2.
To apply for BC Medical Services Plan (MSP), complete the MSP Application online at the MSP website. You may also complete the MSP Application Enrolment form by mail and send it directly to BC MSP. You can apply as soon as you arrive in BC.

3.
The waiting period for BC MSP coverage is 2-3 months for new residents.

4.
Visit the International Teaching Assistants page.

5.
Yes, you can opt out of the guard.me@SFU plan if you already have valid coverage through BC Medical Services Plan (MSP) or another Canadian provincial or territorial public health coverage, are studying at SFU under a government-sponsored scholarship program, or you are outside of Canada. To opt out, you need to visit the opt out website, select your appropriate student category, and follow the opt out instructions before the deadline.

6.
Guard.me@SFU is a short-term primary medical insurance coverage for your first term at SFU. It provides transitional coverage while you are waiting for your BC Medical Services Plan (MSP).

7.
The cost of guard.me@SFU insurance is $281 for your first term at SFU.

8.
You will receive a welcome email from guard.me@SFU at the beginning of the semester. This email will include a link to log into your account to view your policy details. You can view and download your Healthcare Access Card (HAC), which is your proof of insurance and will have your name, student number, policy number, and policy start and end date. You can also log in via the Guard.me@SFU website.

9.
To opt out of guard.me@SFU, you must have valid coverage through BC Medical Services Plan (MSP) or another Canadian provincial or territorial public health coverage. You need to contact your Provincial or Territorial health plan provider to inquire about coverage while in British Columbia (BC). Additionally, if opting out with BC MSP, you must submit proof of MSP which includes a photo of your MSP card and one additional document. To opt out, visit the opt-out website, select your appropriate student category, and follow the opt-out instructions before the deadline.

10.
When visiting any of the SFU Health Clinics, print out a copy of your Healthcare Access Card (HAC) from the guard.me@SFU website. The HAC is your proof of insurance containing your coverage information. They will collect a copy for each visit and will directly bill guard.me@SFU on your behalf. No additional claim is required.

For clinics that do not allow direct billing, you will need to pay upfront for the visit. Keep copies of all your payment receipts. To submit a claim, please visit guard.me@SFU to create an online account and upload copies of your receipts.

11.
Yes, you may be eligible for a refund of the unused portion of your guard.me@SFU insurance if you have not made a claim and there is more than 1 month of coverage remaining when you apply. Your application for a partial reimbursement must be received by guard.me@SFU before the last month of the term. If approved, your partial refund will be applied to your SFU account.

12.
If you have been living in BC but never applied for BC MSP, you should apply for BC MSP right away. Primary medical insurance is legally required for all residents of British Columbia (including international students) and is provided through the BC Medical Services Plan (MSP).

13.
Once you have received your new study permit, you can notify BC MSP by completing an online form and uploading a copy of your new study permit. Please visit the MSP website for more information.

14.
BC MSP provides primary medical coverage such as visits to doctors, hospital stays, and diagnostic medical testing.

15.
Secondary medical insurance generally covers vision care, prescription drugs, dental, and extended health care.

16.
You may opt out of the GSS extended health plan if you have existing secondary coverage in BC. To opt out, you will be required to upload proof of coverage on the GSS Health and Dental website during the Change-of-Coverage Period.

17.
You can claim benefits under the GSS Health and Dental Plan online, through a mobile app, or by mail. Please allow up to two weeks for claims to be processed. For claim forms and more information, please visit the GSS Health and Dental website.

18.
Yes, you can enrol your dependents (spouse and/or dependent children) in the GSS Health and Dental Plan by completing an enrolment process and paying an additional fee during the Change-of-Coverage Period. Common law couples are also eligible.

19.
You can find more information about your secondary medical insurance by visiting the GSS Health and Dental Plan website or by calling the Care Centre at 236-427-8123, Monday to Friday from 9 am to 5 pm. You can also visit the Studentcare Care Office in-person at the Student Union Building (SUB) 2301 on SFU Burnaby campus during the same hours.

20.
You can reach a representative by calling the Care Centre at 236-427-8123, Monday to Friday from 9 am to 5 pm. Or you can visit the Studentcare Care Office in person, located at the Student Union Building (SUB) 2301 on SFU Burnaby campus, Monday to Friday from 9 am to 5 pm.

