1.
The Take Home Naloxone program provides life-saving kits to people at risk of experiencing or witnessing an opioid drug poisoning (overdose). It started in 2012 and has over 2000 distribution sites across BC. The program offers kits that include 3 doses of injectable naloxone, which temporarily reverses the effects of opioids in the Central Nervous System (CNS) and restores breathing, preventing longer-term brain injury and death. Naloxone is available in BC without a prescription.

2.
The BC Centre for Disease Control started the Take Home Naloxone program in 2012.

3.
More than 2000 distribution sites.

4.
Naloxone is a substance that temporarily reverses the effect of opioids in the Central Nervous System (CNS). It restores breathing that is slowed or stopped by opioids (e.g., dilaudid, morphine, heroin, methadone, fentanyl, etc.), preventing longer-term brain injury and death. Naloxone is available in BC without a prescription and is provided in kits that include 3 doses of injectable naloxone.

5.
Dilaudid, morphine, heroin, methadone, fentanyl.

6.
No, naloxone is available in BC without a prescription.

7.
3 doses

8.
No, individuals cannot obtain naloxone directly from the BC Centre for Disease Control.

9.
No, BCCDC THN kits are not currently available for private businesses.

10.
Pharmacies can provide naloxone and training for its use in community pharmacies.

11.
Group training sessions in Overdose Recognition and Response are available in BC through St John Ambulance.

12.
Health care employees seeking naloxone for use in the workplace should speak to their employer or regional Health Authority. The BC Take Home Naloxone program does not provide naloxone to Health Authority sites for use in the workplace. If a clinic wishes to have naloxone on site, they should visit a local pharmacy to purchase naloxone and any necessary supplies.

13.
Patients who use drugs or are likely to witness a drug poisoning are eligible for free Take Home Naloxone kits.

14.
Not-for-profit organizations that work directly with clients at risk of opioid drug poisoning may be eligible to participate in the Facility Overdose Response Box (FORB) program. For further information, they should click the provided link in the context.

15.
1. Complete the New Site Registration Form.
2. Contact the local Harm Reduction Coordinator for review and approval of the application.
3. Send the application to the naloxone program for review.
4. Review the recommended training materials, including an interactive learning lesson (Naloxone 101), videos, and training manual.

16.
The recommended training materials include an interactive learning lesson (Naloxone 101), videos, training manual, and more.

17.
A Take Home Naloxone trainer can be anyone who has reviewed and understands the required training materials specified in the New Site Registration Form and who are able to demonstrate the preparation and giving of an intramuscular (IM) injection.

18.
The site will receive a confirmation email if its application is approved.

19.
Existing Take Home Naloxone sites can find paperwork, resources, and updates in the Resource Library.

20.
The purpose of the Naloxone 101 training course is to teach people how to use Take Home Naloxone kits to respond to opioid drug poisoning.

