1.
May 5th is recognized as the National Day of Awareness for Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women, Girls and Two-Spirit People (MMIWG2S).

2.
SVSPO: 778.782.7233 | sv-support@sfu.ca

3.
Sexual Violence Support & Prevention Office (SVSPO) and SFSS Women’s Centre.

4.
12:00pm to 2:00pm

5.
You can bring a meaningful object for the memorial table to any of the locations on campus on Monday, May 5th from 12:00pm to 2:00pm.

6.
- Hang a red dress in your window.
- Attend a MMIWG2S Awareness Event.
- Read the final report from the National Inquiry on MMIWG2S.
- Donate to initiatives that support Indigenous women in the community.
- Bring a meaningful object to the memorial table on May 5th.
- Download the guide created by the Indigenous Student Centre and SVSPO for culturally relevant supports.
- Encourage SFU faculty to initiate conversations about MMIWG2S in classrooms.

7.
A red dress.

8.
You can find information about MMIWG2S awareness events by visiting the SFU Indigenous Student Centre webpage, attending a MMIWG2S Awareness Event, or listening to the CJSFM episode featuring an interview with Paola Quirós-Cruz from SFU’s Sexual Violence Support & Prevention Office (SVSPO). Additionally, you can contact the SVSPO at 778.782.7233 or sv-support@sfu.ca for more details.

9.
Jerilynn Webster, also known as JB the First Lady, is a member of the Nuxalk & Onondaga Nations. She is a Vancouver-based hip hop and spoken word artist, beat-boxer, cultural dancer, and youth educator. Her contribution to the community includes capturing oral history through her music and addressing challenging subjects such as residential schools and missing and murdered Indigenous women in her lyrics.

10.
The Centre for Educational Excellence (CEE) has prepared a "classroom approaches" handout to encourage and support SFU faculty members in initiating conversations about the National Day of Awareness for Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women, Girls, and Two-Spirit People (MMIWG2S) in their classrooms.

11.
You can download the guide to SFU and community services that offer culturally relevant supports for Indigenous people impacted by gender-based or sexualized violence from the Indigenous Student Centre and the SVSPO. Additionally, the "classroom approaches" handout prepared by the Centre for Educational Excellence (CEE) can also be downloaded.

12.
CJSFM explored the rise of intimate partner violence (IPV) across Canada, featuring an interview with Paola Quirós-Cruz, an Educator at SFU’s Sexual Violence Support & Prevention Office (SVSPO). They discussed the impact of IPV at the post-secondary level and provided information on the memorial hosted by the SVSPO and the SFU SFSS Women’s Centre on May 5 for the National Day of Awareness for Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women, Girls, and Two-Spirit People (MMIWG2S).

13.
West Mall Centre (WMC) 1301, 8888 University Drive, Burnaby, B.C., Canada V5A 1S6

14.
xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo, Tsawwassen.

