1.
You can book appointments online, by phone at 778-782-4615, or in-person. Appointments can be booked up to two business days in advance.

2.
Health & Counselling provides free, confidential, and time-limited counselling support, including initial consultations and assessments, information and referrals, workshops, crisis support, safety planning, and individual and group counselling. Services are delivered by Registered Clinical Counsellors, Registered Psychologists, and their professional student trainees.

3.
Counselling sessions are usually 30 or 50 minutes long.

4.
During your first appointment, you can expect the following:

1. Complete a brief questionnaire about your concerns and the type of support you are seeking.
2. A 30-minute session with a mental health clinician who will ask questions to clarify your needs and review your questionnaire responses.
3. Identification of a goal and development of an action plan tailored to address your concerns.
4. Discussion about potential resources, including referrals to additional services if necessary.

5.
Yes, at your rapid access/intake appointment, you can express your preference for counsellor gender, language, background, and more.

6.
Various kinds of anxiety (worry, social, test), stress, mild to moderate depression, adjustment and transition to university, acculturation, family and relationship concerns, loneliness, identity concerns.

7.
Counselling sessions are typically scheduled two to four weeks apart.

8.
To schedule a rapid access/intake appointment, call the front desk at 778-782-4615 and request an appointment. Availability permitting, you will be matched with the next available clinician within two business days. Before your appointment, complete a brief questionnaire regarding your concerns and the type of support you are seeking.

9.
Yes, group-based programs are available for students.

10.
My SSP is a service contracted by the university that provides 24/7 access to professional counsellors and an extensive digital library of mental health content, including virtual fitness sessions and self-administered assessments. SFU students can access My SSP by calling or chatting using the app, or by arranging for short-term counselling with a My SSP counsellor by appointment.

11.
If you need longer-term counselling, your counsellor at Health & Counselling can provide a list of counsellors and psychologists in private practice. Additionally, you may be referred to community-based programs or longer-term counselling options.

12.
Yes, you may be scheduled for a 30 or 50 minute, in-person or remote, single session appointment to follow up on your concerns presented during the rapid access/intake appointment.

13.
Monday to Friday | 9:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.

14.
Your counsellor at Health & Counselling can provide a list of counsellors and psychologists in private practice. Additionally, many counselling programs and groups are available in the community, some of which are free or offer lower cost student rates or a “sliding fee scale.”

15.
No, Health & Counselling provides free counselling support for all SFU and FIC students currently enrolled in a term.

