1.
9 am to 4 pm, Monday to Friday

2.
1250 Maggie Benston Centre, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby BC V5A 1S6

3.
Email: caladmin@sfu.ca  
Phone: 778.782.3112

4.
A Psycho-Educational Assessment, also referred to as a Learning Disability Assessment, provides vital information to determine a student’s entitlement to academic accommodations. It helps identify and understand a student's strengths and weaknesses in their learning profile, particularly for those experiencing functional academic barriers.

5.
Students who experience functional academic barriers may benefit from a Learning Disability Assessment to help identify and understand their strengths and weaknesses in their learning profile.

6.
The government defines a permanent disability as "a functional limitation caused by a physical or mental impairment that restricts the ability of a person to perform the daily activities necessary to participate in studies at a post-secondary level or in the labour force and that is expected to remain for the person’s expected natural life."

7.
The Learning Disability Assessment Bursary (LDAB) is a provincial financial needs-based bursary intended to provide funding to students to be used solely for covering the costs attributed to obtaining a current Learning Disability (Psycho-Educational) Assessment. The LDAB provides recommended students with a one-time bursary (up to $1,800 CAD) to be used towards the up-front cost of an Assessment.

8.
1. Be a full or part-time student at SFU, enrolled in a post-secondary program.
2. Demonstrate financial need through the Student Financial Assistance (student loans) application process.
3. Not be in default of a BC Student Loan.
4. Not have already qualified as a student with a disability with StudentAid BC (SABC).
5. Have met screening requirements and have been recommended by CAL to obtain an Assessment.

9.
The LDAB provides a one-time bursary of up to $1,800 CAD for assessments.

10.
To apply for the LDAB, students must:

1. Be a full or part-time student at SFU, enrolled in a post-secondary program.
2. Demonstrate financial need through the Student Financial Assistance (student loans) application process.
3. Not be in default of a BC Student Loan.
4. Not have already qualified as a student with a disability with StudentAid BC (SABC).
5. Have met screening requirements and have been recommended by CAL to obtain an Assessment.

If CAL has recommended that a student obtain an Assessment, they may then apply for the LDAB to cover the up-front cost of their Assessment. CAL determines appropriate candidates for the Learning Disability Screen’s completion and administers this screen accordingly.

11.
The CSG-PDSE (Canada Student Grant for Students with Permanent Disabilities) is a federal financial aid program that helps part-time or full-time students with permanent disabilities pay for exceptional education-related costs for services and equipment. 

Eligibility criteria include:
- Qualifying for a federal student loan (demonstrating financial need).
- Being enrolled in full-time or part-time studies at SFU.
- Having a permanent disability as defined by the Canada Student Loan Program.
- Incurring exceptional education-related costs for services or equipment due to the permanent disability.

12.
Students can be reimbursed for up to 75% of the cost of the Assessment, with a maximum of $1,700 CAD.

13.
The APSD (Accessibility Plan for Students with Disabilities) is a federal financial aid program intended to help students cover expenses associated with exceptional education-related services and equipment. 

Eligibility requirements include:
- Being a student with a permanent disability.
- Having exhausted all funding available through the CSG-PDSE within the program year. 

To confirm eligibility and apply for reimbursement, students should contact the Centre for Accessible Learning (CAL) by email or phone.

14.
The Simon Fraser Student Society (SFSS) has initiated a pilot program to assist undergraduate students whose assessment costs extend beyond the coverage available under the student health plan’s psychology benefit. SFSS coverage for assessments is allocated on a case-by-case basis, and students may be reimbursed for 80% of costs (to a maximum of $3,000 CAD) incurred per policy year when public funding is otherwise unavailable.

15.
80%

16.
The Graduate Student Society plan covers up to 80% of the cost of a mental health practitioner, with a maximum of $600 per policy year (combined for all practitioners). The practitioner must be a licensed psychologist, a registered clinical counsellor, or have a Master’s degree in Social Work.

17.
Students can visit the British Columbia Psychological Association’s website to find registered psychologists that conduct assessments.

18.
No, the Centre for Accessible Learning does not refer individual students to specific assessors/clinics/practices that conduct Assessments.

