1.
The purpose of the SFU Institute of Diaspora Research & Engagement (IDRE) is to combine interdisciplinary research with community engaged research, strengthen links between scholarly research, policy and practice related to multi-cultural diaspora, and support inclusive markets. It also provides advisory services to diasporic communities, training, and incubation of international economic and enterprise development projects.

2.
2013

3.
Interdisciplinary research with community engaged research, focusing on multi-cultural diaspora and their role in building inclusive markets.

4.
The theme of the symposium titled "The Unbounded Classroom" is teaching, learning, and research for democratic participation.

5.
Paola Ardiles, June Francis, Sume Ndumbe-Eyoh

6.
Thursday, November 4th, 9:00 am - 12:00 pm PDT

7.
Hope Meets Action: Echoes Through the Black Continuum

8.
August 14

9.
The B.C. Black History Awareness Society.

10.
Dr. June Francis will serve as the Special Advisor to the President on Anti-Racism.

11.
Dr. June Francis's responsibilities as the Special Advisor to the President on Anti-Racism include offering advice and guidance on matters of anti-racism and institutional change, with a focus on anti-Black racism, as well as equity, diversity, and inclusion.

12.
June Francis discussed that Canadians often compare racism in Canada to that in the United States and overlook the problems within their own country. She stated that while Canadians claim to live in a colorblind society, they are actually blind to racism, making it more insidious because they tend to focus on issues south of the border without acknowledging Canada's own deep history of racism.

13.
Hogan's Alley

14.
A dialogue on Rwanda, hosted by the Institute for Diaspora Research and Engagement in collaboration with Hogan’s Alley Society and Building Bridges with Rwanda.

15.
Hogan’s Alley Society and Building Bridges with Rwanda.

16.
Shahnaz Qayumi initiated a project to develop and deliver Early Childhood Education curriculum in partnership with Kabul University.

17.
The goal of the Early Childhood Education curriculum project in Afghanistan is to train more than 100,000 teachers and assistants in Early Childhood Education.

18.
xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səɬilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples.

