1.
Bouncing Forward is a free, non-credit Canvas course designed to help you build resilience and enhance your well-being.

2.
You can build resilience using the 8 Ways to Build Resilience video series by watching each video, which focuses on different aspects of resilience and includes activities to follow along with.

3.
- Sooner or Later? A Self-Paced Procrastination Management Program: Learn how to start your important tasks sooner with this self-paced course designed by a registered clinical counsellor.

4.
You can learn about anxiety and depression by accessing seminar resources available any time and attending a seminar for Q&As.

5.
- Learn more about mental illness and mental health distress.
- Join the course on eliminating stigma related to mental illness and mental health distress (by Hi-FIVE) to put anti-stigma into effect on campus.

6.
Learn how to recognize potential signs of distress and/or suicide risk, and how to provide immediate support.

7.
Yes, free classes are offered weekly in-person and on Zoom.

8.
- Mindfulness (10 minute and 25 minute versions)
- Mountain Meditation (19 minutes)
- Progressive Muscle Relaxation (10 minutes)
- Self-Compassion: Affectionate Breathing (10 minutes)
- Body Scan (25 minutes)

9.
Progressive Muscle Relaxation is a technique that involves tensing and relaxing muscles throughout the body. It helps to increase levels of relaxation and decrease levels of stress and tension.

10.
Find a space and make time to get your body moving so you can thrive at SFU and beyond. View here.

11.
- ASMR videos
- Relaxing content for studying
- Art tutorial video

12.
1. My SSP
2. AbleTo
3. BellyBio
4. Calm
5. Happify
6. Headspace
7. Healthy Minds
8. Insight Timer
9. Moodmission
10. The Safe Place

13.
My SSP provides support options through Here2Talk and offers 24/7 counselling support for SFU students.

14.
AbleTo provides techniques based on cognitive behavioral therapy via self-care, peer support, and trained coaches and therapists to deal with stress, anxiety, depression, and other mental health concerns.

15.
Calm provides meditation practices and sleep stories written and recorded by various individuals to help with sleep, meditation, and relaxation.

16.
Science-based games and activities that aim to help overcome stress, negative thoughts, and life’s general challenges.

17.
Headspace offers guided meditations to help manage stress and anxiety, improve sleep, focus, and mind-body health.

18.
Healthy Minds helps users cope with emotions by providing a daily mood tracker, journaling, stress buster strategies, video breathing exercises, and a problem-solving guide to help identify and develop a plan to address life challenges.

19.
Moodmission is an app that provides a tailored list of 5 Missions, which are mental health strategies including mindfulness meditations, exercise and fitness activities, affirmations, yoga, and more. It customizes these strategies based on how you are feeling at a specific time to help boost your mood.

20.
The Safe Place app is focused on psychoeducation and self-care for minority mental health, geared towards the Black community.

