1.
The role of the Ombudsperson at SFU is to provide information and guidance on students' rights and responsibilities, University regulations, policies, and procedures. The Ombudsperson acts as an independent, impartial, and confidential resource for students, helping them develop self-advocacy skills. They may also make recommendations for changes to policies and procedures and promote discussion on institution-wide concerns impacting students.

2.
The Ombudsperson supports students in understanding their rights by providing information and guidance on students' rights and responsibilities, as well as University regulations, policies, and procedures. They help students develop self-advocacy skills and offer strategies to raise issues constructively.

3.
No, the Ombudsperson does not advocate or represent students directly.

4.
1965

5.
All information provided to the Ombudsperson is kept confidential unless there is explicit permission for names and/or details to be released and it is considered appropriate to do so.

6.
1. The Office operates with a high degree of independence within the University.
2. It is separate from all academic structures and student government.

7.
- Confidentiality
- Independence
- Impartiality
- Objectivity
- Administrative fairness

8.
The Ombudsperson can refuse to investigate a case if the complaint is deemed frivolous, vexatious, not brought in good faith, or an abuse of the Ombudsperson’s functions.

9.
The Office of the Ombudsperson at SFU is jointly funded by the GSS, SFSS, and SFU.

10.
The Office of the Ombudsperson is located in MBC Room 2266, 8888 University Drive, Burnaby, B.C., Canada V5A 1S6.

11.
xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), sənilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo, Tsawwassen.

12.
The Ombudsperson provides information and guidance on students' rights and responsibilities, University regulations, policies and procedures, and strategies to use constructive ways to raise issues.

