1.
EFAP counselling can help with a wide range of issues, including but not limited to: 
- Support for clients within the Indigenous community
- Issues related to Inuit, Metis, First Nations and Residential Schools
- LGBTQ2+ community support
- Support for BIPOC communities 
- Access to culturally traditional approaches with Elders and/or Knowledge Keepers

2.
The licensed counsellors available through Homewood Health include those with extensive experience in counselling clients within the Indigenous community, as well as experts in Inuit, Metis, First Nations, Residential Schools, LGBTQ2+, and BIPOC communities.

3.
To access support from an Elder or Knowledge Keeper, you may call the Intake Centre with a self-identified Elder and/or Knowledge Keeper of your choosing. If the Elder is not self-identified at the time of intake, Homewood Health will connect you to one of their clinical experts who specialize in Indigenous Culture.

4.
Pathfinder is part of the Employee and Family Assistance Program (EFAP) offered through Homewood Health. It is powered by Homeweb at no cost to the user and tailors personalized care plans and service recommendations based on individual presenting concerns. Pathfinder allows users and their family members to create an individual profile, assess the severity of their concerns, and combine optimal clinical solutions with their unique preferences to create a customized care path.

5.
1. Visit Homeweb and click "sign UP".
2. Type in Simon Fraser University and click ‘Find it!’. Select from the list provided. Enter information into the required fields, choose an email and password, and click 'Next Step'.
3. Confirm how you are covered by Homewood Health (e.g. through your organization or the organization of a family member) and confirm your relationship to the organization (e.g. employee, spouse, dependent, etc.). Submit the additional information required and click ‘Sign Up’ at the bottom of the page.

6.
1. Visit Homeweb and click "sign UP".
2. Type in Simon Fraser University and click ‘Find it!’. Select from the list provided.
3. Enter information into the required fields, choose an email and password, and click 'Next Step'.
4. Confirm how you are covered by Homewood Health (e.g. through your organization or the organization of a family member) and confirm your relationship to the organization (e.g. employee, spouse, dependent, etc.). 
5. Submit the additional information required and click ‘Sign Up’ at the bottom of the page.

7.
When signing up for Homewood Health services, you need to provide the following information:

1. Your organization (e.g., Simon Fraser University).
2. Required personal information (name, email, password).
3. Confirmation of how you are covered by Homewood Health (e.g., through your organization or a family member's organization).
4. Your relationship to the organization (e.g., employee, spouse, dependent).

8.
8:30am - 4:30pm (Monday - Thursday)

9.
Strand Hall, Room 2170, 8888 University Drive, Simon Fraser University.

10.
Telephone: 778 782 3237  
Business Fax: 778 782 3449

