1.
The purpose of the seminar on anxiety and depression is to help people understand the symptoms and learn strategies to manage or help reduce them, as well as provide information on how to access further support.

2.
Dr. Shona Adams

3.
Two hours.

4.
Participants can attend the seminar either in person on campus or via Zoom.

5.
The seminar will provide information on understanding the symptoms of anxiety and depression, strategies to manage or reduce those symptoms, how to access further support, and there will be a question-and-answer session with Dr. Shona Adams. Additionally, participants will have access to a copy of the seminar slides, a pre-recorded version of the seminar, and other helpful resources.

6.
Yes, there will be a 20-minute question-and-answer session with Dr. Shona Adams, and participants can also ask questions in real-time during the Live Chat via Zoom.

7.
You can register for the seminar through Canvas to get more information, including the Zoom link and room number.

8.
Participants will have access to a copy of the seminar slides, a pre-recorded version of the seminar, and other helpful resources under Canvas 'Files'. These resources are available until the end of the term.

9.
No, attendees' names will remain confidential and will not be visible to other participants registered for the seminar.

10.
The pre-recorded version of the seminar can be found on Canvas. You will need to click "enrol in course" to access the video and other resources in the Canvas Files.

11.
Dr. Shona Adams predominantly uses a Human Givens and a CBT (Cognitive Behavioral Therapy) approach.

12.
Dr. Shona Adams is a Registered Psychologist who trained as a Clinical Psychologist in Oxford, U.K.

13.
You can access the seminar slides and handouts through Canvas. You will need to enroll in the course to access the video and other resources in the Canvas files.

14.
You can share your feedback about the event in the "Quizzes" section on Canvas.

15.
Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615  
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200  
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

