1.
- Wholistic wellness programs
- Wellness Program (online community and in-person programs)
- One-on-one appointments or workshops with Indigenous Clinical Counsellors
- Elders Program Drop-in for casual conversation and knowledge sharing
- Cultural Connections workshops to learn new skills and visit with community
- Feedback form for program suggestions

2.
You can learn about upcoming wellness programs at the ISC by checking out the Calendar of Events.

3.
Yes, you can fill out the feedback form or email iscadmin@sfu.ca to suggest new programs for the ISC.

4.
Sign up for the Wellness Program to join our online community and in-person programs.

5.
Indigenous Clinical Counsellors provide one-on-one appointments and workshops.

6.
The Elders Program Drop-in is a casual conversation and knowledge-sharing opportunity where participants can engage with Elders. To participate, you can attend the drop-in sessions offered by the program.

7.
Cultural Connections workshops involve learning new skills and visiting with the community.

8.
Tricia Kay Williams is a Black Counsellor available at SFU Health and Counselling Services. She offers drop-in appointments (booking needed in advance) and provides support related to Black Mental Health and other BIPOC-specific supports.

9.
You can access Black Mental Health supports at SFU by visiting the HCS Black Student Supports page for more information. Additionally, you can book a drop-in appointment with Tricia Kay Williams, the Black Counsellor available through SFU Health and Counselling Services.

10.
The MindShift Application is an iOS and Android app designed to help individuals ease their anxiety through tools aimed at relaxing the mind and developing more effective ways of thinking. It is free of charge and available for download through the App Store and Google Play.

11.
Additional counselling services can be found at SFU Health and Counselling Services.

12.
xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo, Tsawwassen.

