1.
Sexual Assault Awareness Month (SAAM) is a month-long series of engagement opportunities hosted by the Sexual Violence Support & Prevention Office (SVSPO) in collaboration with SFU and FIC partners every January. The purpose of SAAM is to raise awareness about sexualized violence and to empower SFU and FIC students, faculty, staff, and administrators to engage with this complex topic in meaningful ways.

2.
SAAM is observed every January.

3.
The Sexual Violence Support & Prevention Office (SVSPO) in collaboration with SFU and FIC partners organizes SAAM events.

4.
The purpose of SAAM is to raise awareness about sexualized violence and to empower SFU and FIC students, faculty, staff, and administrators to engage with this complex topic in meaningful ways.

5.
Communities can support survivors of sexualized violence by:

1. Creating spaces that witness, support, and hold survivors with compassion.
2. Engaging in collective healing processes rather than treating healing as solely an individual responsibility.
3. Committing to care and providing resources and support systems.
4. Encouraging various healing methods, such as journaling, therapy, meditation, and cultural traditions.
5. Supporting advocacy efforts and ensuring that survivors are believed and heard.

6.
- Writing in a journal
- Painting
- Talking to a therapist
- Practicing meditation
- Connecting with cultural traditions
- Joining support groups
- Engaging in advocacy
- Being believed

7.
Survivors and everyone are invited to participate in SAAM 2026.

8.
How can we hold space for healing--together?

9.
To learn more about becoming a SAAM Event Partner, you can contact the Sexual Violence Support & Prevention Office (SVSPO) at 778.782.7233 or via email at sv-support@sfu.ca.

10.
Fereshteh Rashed (SFU Graduate Student Society), Jessica Jandu (SFSS Women's Centre), Jessica Truong (Fraser International College), Melissa Tamer (Beedie School of Business), Michelle Nalliah (Centre for Digital Media), Shanjarika Mvungi (Simon Fraser Student Society), Tyler Schwartz (Sustainable Energy Engineering).

11.
West Mall Centre (WMC) 1301, 8888 University Drive, Burnaby, B.C., Canada V5A 1S6

12.
Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

13.
You can contact the Sexual Violence Support & Prevention Office (SVSPO) at 778.782.7233 or via email at sv-support@sfu.ca.

