1.
SFU's Sexualized Violence Policy (GP 44) defines sexualized violence as any sexual act or any act targeting a person’s sexuality, gender identity, or gender expression that is committed, threatened, or attempted against a person without the person's consent. It also defines consent as the clear, ongoing, and voluntary agreement to engage in sexual activities, which is informed, freely given, and actively communicated, either through words or actions.

2.
SFU defines sexualized violence as any sexual act or any act targeting a person’s sexuality, gender identity, or gender expression that is committed, threatened, or attempted against a person without the person's consent.

3.
The context does not provide specific examples of sexualized violence. It only states that sexualized violence includes but is not limited to the examples listed below, without detailing those examples.

4.
If you are unsure whether an act constitutes sexualized violence, you can connect with an SVSPO case manager who can provide additional context and help you determine whether any of the terms are applicable to your situation.

5.
Consent is the clear, ongoing, and voluntary agreement to engage in sexual activities. Consent is informed, freely given, and actively communicated, either through words or actions.

6.
Consent is informed when individuals have all the necessary information to make a decision about engaging in sexual activities. It is freely given when individuals are not pressured, coerced, or manipulated into agreeing to participate in such activities.

7.
You can make an anonymous disclosure about an incident of sexualized violence by sharing information without revealing your personal information at the SVSPO. This can be done regardless of when or where the incident(s) took place.

8.
Yes.

9.
West Mall Centre (WMC) 1301, 8888 University Drive, Burnaby, B.C., Canada V5A 1S6

10.
SFU acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples.

