1.
Drug Poisoning Overdose Advisory - Nanaimo - November 21, 2025: Drug poisonings are increasing in Nanaimo. Friends, family and community members using unregulated substances face increased risk.

2.
Medetomidine and Fentanyl.

3.
1. Use with others around.
2. Use one person at a time so someone can respond to overdose if needed.
3. Start with a small amount, and then go slow.
4. Know the risks when mixing drugs.
5. Be cautious when smoking drugs; smoking is not safer than injecting.
6. If using alone, consider using the Lifeguard app to connect with 911 emergency responders if you overdose.

4.
To sign up for Toxic Drug and Public Health Alerts in BC, text the word JOIN to 253787 (ALERTS). You will be asked to choose which health region you want to receive alerts for, and you can select more than one region or sign up for the entire province.

5.
The Lifeguard app connects users to mental health and substance use resources, features a Use Alone Timer to stay protected during substance use, and alerts paramedics if the user becomes unresponsive.

6.
You can access overdose prevention services in your community through the following:

1. Overdose Prevention Services
2. Local Substance Use Services: 310-MHSU
3. ANKORS Drug Checking: 250-426-3383
4. Supervised Consumption and Overdose Prevention Services
5. Drug Checking services found at www.drugchecking.ca
6. Virtual Addiction Medicine Clinic (VAM)

7.
Overdose symptoms may last beyond administration of naloxone. The combination can lead to significant sedation, suppressed respiration, and potentially dangerous cardiovascular effects.

8.
You can contact local substance use services in BC by calling 310-MHSU.

9.
The Virtual Addiction Medicine Clinic (VAM) offers a full range of opioid agonist treatment (OAT), including buprenorphine-naloxone (Suboxone®), methadone, and slow-release oral morphine (SROM / Kadian®).

10.
1. Call 911 immediately.
2. Administer naloxone if available.
3. Stay with the person and monitor their condition.
4. If they are unresponsive, try to wake them gently.
5. If they do not respond, perform rescue breathing if trained.
6. Be prepared to give CPR if necessary until help arrives.

11.
To get naloxone in your area, visit the "Towards the Heart" website and use the 'Find a site' feature to locate where naloxone is available. You can also sign up for Toxic Drug and Health Alerts by texting JOIN to 253787 (ALERTS) for additional information on where to find naloxone.

12.
The risks of mixing drugs include unpredictable effects and an increased risk of overdose.

13.
The National Overdose Response Service (NORS) is an overdose prevention hotline for Canadians, providing loving, confidential, nonjudgmental support for individuals whenever and wherever they use drugs.

14.
The drug checking service informs users about what is in their drugs. Users can access drug checking services in their area to test their substances before use. Additionally, take-home fentanyl test strips are available for personal testing.

15.
Signs of an overdose may include significant sedation, suppressed respiration, and potentially dangerous cardiovascular effects.

16.
Help warn people and save lives by filling in an anonymous form.

17.
Yes, you can choose more than one region or sign up for the whole province.

18.
The Lifeguard app provides a Use Alone Timer that alerts paramedics if the user becomes unresponsive.

19.
You can access mental health and substance use resources in BC by visiting HelpStartsHere (gov.bc.ca) and the BCCDC Indigenous Health Resources page for information tailored to Indigenous peoples and communities. Additionally, you can contact local substance use services at 310-MHSU or call the National Overdose Response Service at 1-888-688-NORS(6677).

20.
- Use with others around.
- Use one person at a time so someone can respond to overdose if needed.
- If using alone, consider using the Lifeguard app which can connect you with 911 emergency responders if you overdose.

