1.
You can contact the SVSPO at 778.782.7233 or via email at sv-support@sfu.ca.

2.
The SVSPO offers confidential information, guidance, and support for employees who have experienced sexualized violence, witnessed sexualized violence, or are providing support to someone else. They provide transportation and/or accompany individuals to medical care. Additionally, they assist with accessing sexual health clinics and external counseling services.

3.
Yes, the support services from the SVSPO are confidential.

4.
1. Consider having a forensic exam to collect evidence (within seven days of the assault).
2. Seek medical assistance for emergency contraceptives and STI prevention options, which do not require a forensic exam.
3. Contact the SVSPO for confidential support and guidance.
4. Reach out to a local hospital (Vancouver General or Surrey Memorial) for specialized sexual assault support and medical treatment.
5. You can choose to report the assault to the police at any time; evidence can be securely stored for up to one year.

5.
You can get a forensic exam at either Vancouver General Hospital or Surrey Memorial Hospital.

6.
No, you do not have to make a report to the police at the time of the exam. The evidence collected can be securely stored for up to one year.

7.
You do not need to have a forensic exam to receive other medical assistance such as emergency contraceptives and STI prevention options.

8.
Yes, the SVSPO can provide transportation and/or accompany individuals to Vancouver General or Surrey Memorial Hospitals for medical care.

9.
Vancouver General and Surrey Memorial Hospitals provide specialized sexual assault support and medical treatment, including the option for forensic evidence collection. Free services are available for anyone 13 years or older within 7 days following a sexual assault. Services include treatment for injury, sexually transmitted infections, pregnancy prevention, forensic evidence collection, and emotional support.

10.
You can access the Employee and Family Assistance Program (EFAP) by calling 1.800.663.1142.

11.
Yes, there are resources available for BIPOC (Black, Indigenous and People of Colour) individuals impacted by sexualized violence. In collaboration with campus and community partners, SFU has created a list of services that offer culturally relevant support for these individuals.

12.
VictimLinkBC is a toll-free, confidential, multilingual telephone service available across B.C. It provides information and referral for anyone impacted by crime, operating 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

13.
You can reach the Salal Sexual Violence Support Centre at 604.255.6344 or 1.877.392.7583.

14.
The Surrey Women's Centre offers a 24/7 crisis line for people who have experienced sexual violence, as well as assistance with accessing emergency medical, legal, and social services.

15.
The Ending Violence Association of BC (EVA BC) is a provincial non-profit organization that supports over 240 community-based anti-violence programs. They provide an online directory to help connect individuals with information about services available throughout British Columbia.

16.
Yes, the BC Society for Male Survivors of Sexual Abuse offers therapeutic services for males who have been sexually abused at some point in their lives. Phone: 604.682.6482.

17.
West Mall Centre (WMC) 1301, 8888 University Drive, Burnaby, B.C., Canada V5A 1S6

18.
Yes, Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

