1.
Any member of the SFU or FIC community (students or employees) can access services at the SVSPO, regardless of sexual orientation, gender, age, visa status, or any other factor.

2.
Yes, all of the services at the SVSPO are free of charge.

3.
Case Managers can meet you at a location that is most comfortable for you. That could be at the Burnaby location of the SVSPO or at another location of your preference on any of SFU's campuses. Case Managers can also meet you at an alternate location off campus. They can also support you remotely by phone, text, email, or Zoom.

4.
You can book an appointment with a Case Manager by calling the support line at 778.782.7233, emailing sv-support@sfu.ca, or connecting directly with a Case Manager through their confidential emails and cell phone numbers, which are located on the Contact Us page on the SVSPO website.

5.
We can usually meet with clients within 24 hours of receiving a request, during business hours.

6.
You can choose who is present at your appointment. Feel free to bring a support person, such as a friend, or to request that another resource (e.g., Counsellor, Victim Services Worker) be present. Otherwise, your appointment will be a one-on-one meeting with a Case Manager.

7.
A: Please refer to the GP44 Sexual Violence and Misconduct Prevention, Education and Support, Section 11.0 Access to Information, Confidentiality and Protection of Privacy. Our confidentiality policy can be found here: https://www.sfu.ca/policies/gazette/general/gp44.html.

8.
You do not need to identify yourself to connect with the SVSPO. Any SFU or FIC community member can connect with us and receive information on reporting, medical or other options and resources. You only need to identify yourself if you are requesting formal action, such as making a formal report of sexual violence to the University or requesting academic concessions.

9.
A: You can receive assistance from the SVSPO without providing specific details of your experience. However, the University may require further details if you choose to make a formal report through the institution and that information is required for an investigation. Although some details may be needed outside of an investigation and formal report, you are welcome to share as much or as little of your experience as you are comfortable with.

10.
Absolutely. You do not need to file a report either on or off campus to receive support services from us.

11.
A: The SVSPO offers streamlined counselling services to connect persons impacted by sexual violence to an SFU counsellor who has specialized capacity in this area. This connection also includes options to minimize your retelling of your experience, should you wish for that.

12.
A: We do not provide 24/7 crisis support. We provide support during our office hours from Monday to Friday, 9:00am to 4:30pm. If you require immediate crisis support, visit our Get Help page for community-based 24/7 support services.

13.
The SVSPO will respect your privacy as per SFU’s policy GP44. Unless required by law to contact outside authorities, they will only do so with your consent. If you wish to contact police, the SVSPO can help you do so and assist you with transportation options to meet with police in-person. They can also provide ongoing support in the reporting process if you request this.

14.
Yes. The SVSPO can provide support regardless of when or where the incident(s) took place.

15.
Yes. For those who received a disclosure, the SVSPO can provide support, advice, and resources.

16.
You can arrange something outside of regular hours to accommodate your schedule. You can call the support line at 778.782.7233, email at sv-support@sfu.ca, or connect directly with a Case Manager through their confidential emails and cell phone numbers, located on the Contact Us page on the website to arrange an appointment.

17.
No, you do not need any documents to get support through the SVSPO. Also, you do not have to make a report to the police or the university to get help. The SVSPO is here to support you in ways that make sense to you.

