1.
- Use with a buddy or at overdose prevention sites.
- If using alone, have someone check on you and call for help if needed.
- Test a small amount first, then go slowly.
- Be prepared for an overdose; get training and carry naloxone.
- Avoid mixing substances, including prescription drugs with alcohol or other drugs.
- Use less than you normally would if mixing substances.
- Be aware that being sick, run down, or having a chronic illness can increase overdose risk.
- Recognize that tolerance may be lower after a break from use or when using a substance for the first time.

2.
It is safer to use drugs with a buddy. If you choose to use alone, get someone to look in on you and call for help if needed.

3.
Get someone to look in on you and call for help if needed.

4.
- Use with a buddy or at overdose prevention sites.
- If using alone, have someone check on you and call for help if needed.
- Be prepared if an overdose happens by getting training and carrying naloxone.

5.
It is important to carry naloxone because it can prepare you for an overdose situation and help save a life in case an overdose occurs.

6.
Mixing different substances increases the risk of overdose. It is dangerous to mix drugs (including prescription drugs) with alcohol or other substances. If you do mix, you should use less than you normally would and go slowly.

7.
Being sick, run down, or having a chronic illness can increase the risk of overdose. Your tolerance can also be lower if you haven't used for a while, or if you are using a substance for the first time.

8.
Your tolerance can be lower if you haven't used for a while, which increases the risk of overdose.

9.
For information about safer inhalation supplies, please see the Safer Inhalation Supplies: How to Order, Distribute and Use Supplies. Additionally, you can learn more about different safer smoking supplies, how to use them, and how best to care for them in the printable brochure.

10.
Tablet medications (pills) from a pharmacy are less likely to cause an overdose compared to drugs or pills from the illicit market because the dose and contents of prescribed drugs are known. However, tablet medications can contain fillers that may cause harm when injected, including serious infections, abscesses, and damage to the veins, skin, heart, and lungs.

11.
Fillers in tablet medications can cause harm when injected, including serious infections, abscesses, and damage to the veins, skin, heart, and lungs.

12.
Harm reduction supplies can help when injecting medications by reducing the risks of serious infections, abscesses, and damage to the veins, skin, heart, and lungs. They include filters that minimize harm from fillers found in tablet medications.

13.
1. Injection Pamphlet - Sterifilt Fast  
2. Injection Pamphlet - Cotton Filters  
3. Injection Pamphlets - Preparing for Injection

14.
SmartSexResource provides comprehensive information, education, and resources on sexually transmitted infections, trends, and more.

15.
Hello Cool World.

