1.
- Mental health information and resources, well-being apps, and recordings
- Health benefits summaries
- Employee and Family Assistance Program
- Ergonomic guides and Ergonomics team consultation
- Learning and development opportunities
- Multifaith Centre for faith practice and meditation
- Universal/all-gender washrooms on campus
- Wellness and Recovery Office for ongoing illness and disability resources
- Safety and Risk Services for safety concerns and Safe Walk program
- Sexual Violence Support and Prevention Office (SVSPO)
- Human Rights Office for rights information and reporting discrimination or harassment
- Contact with SFU Human Resources or Faculty Relations for additional needs

2.
You can explore mental health information and resources, as well as well-being apps and recordings, provided by SFU. Additionally, you can reach out to SFU’s Employee and Family Assistance Program for confidential and professional assistance.

3.
You can review your eligibility using the benefits summaries.

4.
The Employee and Family Assistance Program (EFAP) offers confidential and professional assistance to support you and/or your family in resolving challenges related to health, work, or personal life. You can reach out for help by contacting the program through SFU Human Resources or Faculty Relations.

5.
To set up a safe workspace using ergonomic guides, you can consult the Ergonomics team.

6.
View various learning and development opportunities to build your skills and support your career development.

7.
You can practice your faith, meditate, or connect with a faith-based group or chaplain at the Multifaith Centre.

8.
Find a universal/all-gender washroom on campus if you prefer to use gender-inclusive washrooms.

9.
The Wellness and Recovery Office provides resources related to employee health, as well as assistance and accommodations related to ongoing illness and disability.

10.
Contact Safety and Risk Services to share concerns or incidents that you may have encountered, or use their Safe Walk program to have a member of Campus Public Safety safely escort you from one part of campus to another.

11.
The Sexual Violence Support and Prevention Office (SVSPO) offers access to confidential information and support.

12.
You can connect with the Human Rights Office to learn about your rights or to report discrimination and/or harassment.

13.
Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615  
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200  
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

14.
xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo, Tsawwassen.

