1.
All full-time, part-time, continuing and temporary staff in APEX, APSA, SFUFA, POLY, Internal Postdoctoral Fellows, and continuing staff in CUPE; temporary staff in CUPE; and staff in TSSU.

2.
No, temporary staff in CUPE are not included in the EFAP program.

3.
Research employees are currently covered until December 31, 2024.

4.
EFAP counselling can help with a wide range of issues including, but not limited to, support for clients within the Indigenous community, LGBTQ2+ and BIPOC communities, as well as access to culturally traditional approaches with Elders and/or Knowledge Keepers.

5.
Yes, users have access to counsellors with expertise in Indigenous communities through EFAP.

6.
Users can connect with Elders or Knowledge Keepers for support by calling the Intake Centre with a self-identified Elder and/or Knowledge Keeper of their choosing. If the Elder is not self-identified at the time of intake, Homewood Health will offer to connect the user to one of their clinical experts who specialize in Indigenous Culture.

7.
Pathfinder is part of the Employee and Family Assistance Program (EFAP) offered through Homewood Health. It is powered by Homeweb at no cost to the user and provides personalized care plans and service recommendations based on individual concerns. Users can create profiles and receive tailored assessments that combine clinical solutions with their unique preferences.

8.
No, there is no cost associated with using Pathfinder; it is offered at no cost to the user.

9.
Step 1: Visit Homeweb and click "sign UP".

Step 2: Type in Simon Fraser University and click ‘Find it!’. Select from the list provided. Enter information into the required fields, choose an email and password, and click 'Next Step'.

Step 3: Confirm how you are covered by Homewood Health, (e.g. through your organization or the organization of a family member), and confirm your relationship to the organization (e.g. employee, spouse, dependent, etc.). Submit the additional information required and click ‘Sign Up’ at the bottom of the page.

10.
To sign up for the EFAP through Homewood Health, you need to provide the following information:
1. Your organization (Simon Fraser University).
2. Required personal information (fields to be filled in).
3. Email and password.
4. Confirmation of how you are covered by Homewood Health (e.g., through your organization or a family member's organization).
5. Your relationship to the organization (e.g., employee, spouse, dependent, etc.).

11.
Strand Hall, Room 2170, 8888 University Drive

12.
8:30am - 4:30pm (Monday - Thursday)

