1.
- On-demand workshops for mental health and well-being
- Health Peer Outreach
- Workshops for undergraduate students on stress, success, wellness, and resilience
- Workshops for graduate students (TAs/TMs) on building resilience and supporting students in distress
- Workshops for faculty, instructors, staff, and students on mental health strategies and embedding well-being in learning environments
- Suicide Prevention and Awareness Workshop

2.
Yes, the mental health workshops are offered free of charge to all SFU departments and groups.

3.
All students, Undergraduate students, Graduate students (TAs/TMs), Faculty, instructors, staff and students.

4.
To book an information booth through Health and Counselling Services, please complete the survey provided for booking.

5.
50 minutes

6.
1. Describe the relationship between stress, success, wellness, and resilience.
2. Practice strategies that reduce stress and build resilience.
3. Identify key mental health services and supports available at SFU.

7.
1 hour

8.
- Learn evidence-based strategies for building your own resilience
- Increase awareness of support services for mental health and well-being at SFU and the role graduate students can play in assisting students in distress
- Identify concrete strategies for creating a positive and engaging learning environment that enhances well-being

9.
The purpose of the workshop for faculty, instructors, and staff is to learn practical strategies for taking care of their own mental health and well-being, increase awareness of available support services for mental health and well-being at SFU, understand staff and faculty roles in recognizing and referring a student for support, and identify ways for embedding well-being in learning environments.

10.
3 hours

11.
Participants will learn to increase their capacity for recognizing distress and suicide risk, and further understand when it's time to refer students to seek out mental health support.

12.
To contact someone for more information about workshops, please send an email to health_promo@sfu.ca.

13.
Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615  
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200  
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

14.
health_promo@sfu.ca

15.
Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

