1.
SFU's territorial acknowledgement includes the following phrases:

1. Acknowledgement of the x퉝m톛풪k퉝톛y팹톛m (Musqueam), S拷영x퍔w칰7mesh 칔xwumixw (Squamish), s톛lilw톛ta톫 (Tsleil-Waututh), q팹칤c팹톛y팹 (Katzie), k퉝ik퉝톛쿹팹톛m (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo, and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories the three campuses reside.

2. Acknowledgement of the unceded traditional territories of the Coast Salish peoples, including the s톛lilw톛ta톫 (Tsleil-Waututh), k퉝ik퉝톛쿹팹톛m (Kwikwetlem), S拷영x퍔w칰7mesh 칔xwumixw (Squamish), and x퉝m톛풪k퉝톛y팹톛m (Musqueam) Nations, on which SFU Burnaby is located.

3. Acknowledgement of the unceded traditional territories, including the Semiahmoo, Katzie, k퉝ik퉝톛쿹팹톛m (Kwikwetlem), Kwantlen, Qayqayt, and Tsawwassen Nations, on which SFU Surrey is located.

4. Acknowledgement of the unceded traditional territories including the S拷영x퍔w칰7mesh 칔xwumixw (Squamish), s톛lilw톛ta톫 (Tsleil-Waututh), and x퉝m톛풪k퉝톛y팹톛m (Musqueam) Nations, on which SFU Vancouver is located.

2.
1. Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the x퉝m톛풪k퉝톛y팹톛m (Musqueam), S拷영x퍔w칰7mesh 칔xwumixw (Squamish), s톛lilw톛ta톫 (Tsleil-Waututh), q팹칤c팹톛y팹 (Katzie), k퉝ik퉝톛쿹팹톛m (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

2. Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the unceded traditional territories of the Coast Salish peoples, including the s톛lilw톛ta톫 (Tsleil-Waututh), k퉝ik퉝톛쿹팹톛m (Kwikwetlem), S拷영x퍔w칰7mesh 칔xwumixw (Squamish) and x퉝m톛풪k퉝톛y팹톛m (Musqueam) Nations, on which SFU Burnaby is located.

3. Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the unceded traditional territories, including the Semiahmoo, Katzie, k퉝ik퉝톛쿹팹톛m (Kwikwetlem), Kwantlen, Qayqayt and Tsawwassen Nations, on which SFU Surrey is located.

4. Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the unceded traditional territories including, the S拷영x퍔w칰7mesh 칔xwumixw (Squamish), s톛lilw톛ta톫 (Tsleil-Waututh) and x퉝m톛풪k퉝톛y팹톛m (Musqueam) Nations, on which SFU Vancouver is located.

3.
x퉝m톛풪k퉝톛y팹톛m (Musqueam), S拷영x퍔w칰7mesh 칔xwumixw (Squamish), s톛lilw톛ta톫 (Tsleil-Waututh), q팹칤c팹톛y팹 (Katzie), k퉝ik퉝톛쿹팹톛m (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo, Tsawwassen

4.
Truth and Reconciliation

5.
Do not add territorial acknowledgement as text because the Unicode characters will be flagged as spam by some external mail servers.

6.
1. SFU Burnaby: "Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the unceded traditional territories of the Coast Salish peoples, including the s톛lilw톛ta톫 (Tsleil-Waututh), k퉝ik퉝톛쿹팹톛m (Kwikwetlem), S拷영x퍔w칰7mesh 칔xwumixw (Squamish) and x퉝m톛풪k퉝톛y팹톛m (Musqueam) Nations, on which SFU Burnaby is located."

2. SFU Surrey: "Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the unceded traditional territories, including the Semiahmoo, Katzie, k퉝ik퉝톛쿹팹톛m (Kwikwetlem), Kwantlen, Qayqayt and Tsawwassen Nations, on which SFU Surrey is located."

3. SFU Vancouver: "Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the unceded traditional territories including, the S拷영x퍔w칰7mesh 칔xwumixw (Squamish), s톛lilw톛ta톫 (Tsleil-Waututh) and x퉝m톛풪k퉝톛y팹톛m (Musqueam) Nations, on which SFU Vancouver is located."

7.
8888 University Drive, Burnaby, B.C., Canada V5A 1S6

8.
Inclusive and antiracist language is important in communications because it promotes respect, equity, and diversity. It helps to create an environment where all individuals feel valued and acknowledged, reducing the potential for harm and discrimination. Using such language fosters understanding and encourages positive interactions among diverse groups, ultimately contributing to social justice and reconciliation efforts.

9.
- Capitalization: Capitalize both words in "Truth and Reconciliation."
- Punctuation: No specific guidelines provided in the context.

10.
The context does not provide specific details regarding the use of acronyms and abbreviations at SFU.

