1.
The Healthy Campus Community initiative.

2.
The Healthy Campus Community initiative aligns with Canada’s National Standard for Mental Health and Well-being for Post-Secondary Students and the World Health Organization’s Health Promoting University Framework.

3.
1. Built a network of over 300 faculty champions engaging in well-being programming in learning environments.
2. Launched "Tools for Well-being in the Classroom," providing resources for faculty to embed well-being in academic settings.
3. Informed policies and physical spaces that enhance student well-being across SFU’s three campuses.
4. Reached approximately 3000 students annually through presentations, training programs, and outreach events.
5. Enrolled over 300 students in the Bouncing Forward Online Resilience Training, with 93% recommending it to friends.
6. Conducted approximately 50 presentations for graduate and undergraduate students on well-being in the 2021-2022 academic year.
7. Trained 15-20 Health Peers annually to provide outreach events, impacting student health awareness and engagement.

4.
Over 300 faculty champions.

5.
Tools for Well-being in the Classroom.

6.
Over 350 faculty and teaching staff have attended 19 events/sessions related to well-being in learning environments.

7.
Since 2015, two evidence-informed and open access resources have been developed by SFU Health Promotion to inform policies and physical spaces that enhance student well-being.

8.
SFU Health Promotion prioritizes health equity for students by valuing intentional and relational practices to support equity-deserving students’ experiences on campus. They create policies and physical spaces that enhance student well-being and engage in partnerships with academic units to improve strategic objectives related to health equity. Additionally, they empower students and partners through comprehensive, accessible, and evidence-based mental health and well-being education that prioritizes safety, health equity, and cultural competence.

9.
Approximately 3000 graduate and undergraduate students are reached annually.

10.
93%

11.
Mental, physical, and sexual health, and substance use and harm reduction.

12.
Approximately 50 outreach events per year.

13.
Students reported that the resilience training provided them with examples on how to "come back" from failure and offered insights that no matter their failures, they always have an opportunity to bounce back. It emphasized that resilience applies not just to school but to many facets of life, helping them understand the importance of overcoming challenges.

14.
Simon Fraser University acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo, and Tsawwassen peoples.

15.
1. “The relaxation and de-stressing exercises were great. And just knowing that the instructor really understands about these issues was great- this is the most supported I have ever felt in a classroom.” 

2. “This initiative has proved to be highly rewarding for me and my students. We are now more aware of how important well-being should be in higher education. All forms of instruction should prioritize that.” 

3. “Spaces like these encourage me to spend more time at school and socialize here.”

4. “It’s brighter, cleaner and makes me feel happier and better able to study effectively.” 

5. “It’s great that you are doing this. We [SFU] have a lot of resources and it’s great that you’re communicating it out into the community, bringing awareness to the many services offered.”

6. “This course makes me understand about life and motivates me to achieve my goals.”

7. “It is something I'm told often, but I'm glad that the modules frequently remind me that it is perfectly acceptable to seek help from others and that other people is the key to being a well-rounded person.” 

8. “Not only was this course jam packed with information but I loved being able to work at my own pace and all the other resources presented (Ted Talks, Personality Quizzes, etc). All the material complements each other and I learned more about myself as a person through each module.”

9. “I enjoyed the resilience class because it gave examples on how to ‘come back’ from the failure that we experienced - I also enjoyed it because ‘resiliency’ does not just apply to school, it applies to many other facets of life [...] It gave me a greater insight that no matter your failures you always have an opportunity to bounce back from it and it is up to you to make sure that you do.” 

10. “I've seen a lot of students engage and have positive interactions with the Health Peers, and students often come away from their events with new tools to promote their overall health and looking at topics in a new way.”

