1.
1. 5-Minute Well-being Activities
2. Active Learning Techniques
3. Class Check In Activity
4. Creative Pre-class Activities for Social Connectedness and Student Engagement
5. Stretch Break
6. Mindfulness Meditation Practice
7. Group-generated Study Guide
8. Ideas for Social Connection Start Ups
9. Bouncing Forward Resilience Course
10. Well-Being Check-Ins and Tips for Online Learning Environments

2.
- Explore the Guide to 10 Conditions for Well-being in Learning Environments for quick ideas to implement.
- Use 5-minute well-being activities to enhance student well-being and academic success.
- Facilitate quick class check-in activities at the beginning of class to promote social connection.
- Incorporate mindfulness meditation practices in your classes to help students relax and reduce stress.
- Share the Bouncing Forward Resilience Course to help students build personal resilience.
- Use comment cards to gather student feedback throughout the term.
- Provide information about health and well-being resources at the beginning or end of your class.
- Engage students with creative pre-class activities to activate their brains and foster connections.

3.
1. Use sample questions designed to measure the impact of well-being practices in course evaluations.
2. Incorporate instructor-specific questions on your Student Evaluation of Teaching and Courses (SETC).
3. Utilize comment cards to gather ongoing feedback from students throughout the term.
4. Implement first day and midterm questionnaires to understand students' learning preferences and well-being.
5. Conduct well-being check-ins during classes to gauge student feelings and experiences.
6. Assess student engagement with activities related to well-being and resilience strategies.

4.
1. Quick class check-in activities to promote social connection.
2. Stretching techniques during a class break to help students relax.
3. Self-guided mindfulness resources to encourage relaxation and grounding.
4. Two-minute write and reflect activity for students to share experiences.
5. Simple breathing exercises to help students de-stress and focus.

5.
1. Share videos from the Health Peers series on the 6 building blocks of resilience.
2. Incorporate mindfulness meditation practices into classes to help students relax and de-stress.
3. Introduce 5-minute well-being activities that enhance well-being and academic success.
4. Encourage participation in the Bouncing Forward Resilience Course to build personal resilience.
5. Utilize team-based learning to foster social connections and support within the classroom.
6. Implement class check-in activities to promote social connection among students.
7. Create an inclusive environment by respecting differences and establishing class guidelines for discussion.

6.
1. Incorporate active learning strategies from Duke University's guide.
2. Facilitate quick class check-in activities at the beginning of the hour.
3. Use group-generated study guides to encourage teamwork.
4. Implement creative pre-class activities to enhance engagement.
5. Employ team-based learning to foster social connections among students.

7.
To assess the impact of well-being practices on students, consider using these sample questions for your course evaluations. They can be incorporated into your Student Evaluation of Teaching and Courses (SETC) or any other feedback and course evaluation tools you use.

8.
1. Contractual Agreement: Allow students to choose their assignments, the weighting of their assignments, and due dates.
2. Assignment and Assessment Design: Offer ideas centered on flexible learning through intentional design of assignments and rethinking assessment methods.
3. Team Style Grading Rubric: Use a rubric to assign grades based on the quality of teamwork in group work assignments.
4. Group-generated Study Guide: Encourage students to work effectively in teams by creating a study guide together.
5. The “Work-window” Time Management Method: Incorporate strategic time management techniques to support individual and group assignments.

9.
You can incorporate the Bouncing Forward Resilience Course, a free, CCR-credited online course offered by SFU, into your syllabus by sharing it with your students through your syllabus, on your lecture slides, or via an announcement. Additionally, you can invite SFU Health Promotion to present this content to your class.

10.
1. Class Check In Activity
2. Ideas for Social Connection Start Ups
3. Creative Pre-class Activities for Social Connectedness and Student Engagement
4. Get to Know Your Prof
5. Group-generated Study Guide
6. Team-Based Learning
7. Using Digital Tools to Support Student Engagement, Collaboration, and Well-being
8. Write and Reflect activity

11.
- Use a comment card to get feedback from your students throughout the term.
- Implement first day and midterm questionnaires to enhance the relationship with students and cater course content to their preferences.
- Utilize the reality check reflection tool to encourage students to think about their values and abilities.
- Schedule brief well-being check-ins in your online learning environment, such as Canvas, to gather student feedback.

12.
1. Enhances flexibility for students.
2. Allows students to choose their assignments.
3. Enables students to determine the weighting of their assignments.
4. Lets students set their own due dates.
5. Promotes learner-centered teaching.

13.
To create class guidelines that respect differences, you can:

1. Facilitate a class guidelines activity that encourages open discussion and collaboration among students.
2. Involve students in the creation of the guidelines to ensure their voices are heard.
3. Emphasize the importance of respect and inclusivity in all interactions.
4. Establish clear expectations for behavior that acknowledges and values diverse perspectives.
5. Create a safe space for students to express their thoughts and feelings without judgment.

14.
1. Class Check In Activity
2. Ideas for Social Connection Start Ups
3. Creative Pre-class Activities for Social Connectedness and Student Engagement
4. Get to Know Your Prof
5. 5-Minute Well-being Activities

15.
- Utilize the resources and support structures provided by SFU for EAL students.
- Offer workshops and consultations through the SFU Centre for Educational Excellence (CEE).
- Incorporate inclusive teaching practices and be mindful of language barriers.
- Provide materials and resources that are accessible to EAL learners.
- Encourage peer support and collaboration among students.

16.
To enhance the relationship between the instructor and students in the class by using a student-centered approach to cater course content that better suits different learning preferences.

17.
1. Use creative pre-class activities to engage students and promote social connectedness.
2. Implement class check-in activities at the beginning of sessions to foster social connection.
3. Share personal stories to help students get to know you better as a person.
4. Encourage group work through assignments like a group-generated study guide to build teamwork skills.
5. Establish class guidelines to respect differences and create a safe space for discussion.
6. Incorporate mindfulness meditation practices to help students relax and be present.
7. Utilize team-based learning to promote social connections and foster a supportive community.
8. Use inclusive practices, such as supporting pronoun declaration and creating safe spaces for diverse identities.

18.
1. Group-generated study guide assignment
2. Team-based learning
3. Team style grading rubric
4. Contractual agreement for assignment choices
5. Creative pre-class activities for social connectedness
6. Class check-in activities to promote social connection
7. Group projects that encourage collaboration and communication
8. Involvement opportunities to foster teamwork skills

19.
- Use the Health and Well-being Resources Slide Deck from SFU Health Promotion to share information and supports with students at the beginning or end of your class.
- Incorporate the Bouncing Forward Resilience Course into your syllabus or announcements.
- Share self-guided mindfulness resources or schedule mindfulness practices in your classes.
- Provide syllabus language regarding stress and support services for mental well-being.

20.
Use the "In The News Activity" to help relate your course content to real-world and current issues in the news.

21.
Inclusive Classrooms Checklist

22.
1. Learn about how to support students in difficulty and refer them to appropriate resources.
2. Use the SFU Supporting Students in Distress Response Guide as a companion document for faculty and staff.
3. Identify potential signs of distress in students and be proactive in offering help.
4. Foster an open and supportive classroom environment where students feel comfortable discussing their challenges.
5. Encourage students to seek help from available mental health and well-being resources.

23.
The resources available for LGBTQIA2S+ students include a draft/work-in-progress list of resources to support faculty in creating a safer and more inclusive university environment for trans, gender non-binary, and other gender diverse students, research participants, staff, faculty, and community stakeholders. For updates, additions, and feedback, contact travis_salway@sfu.ca and pardiles@sfu.ca.

24.
1. Share self-guided mindfulness resources with students.
2. Schedule mindfulness meditation practices as part of your classes, lectures, seminars, labs, or tutorials.
3. Use moments in class for students to pause and breathe, helping them to relax and be present.
4. Incorporate mindfulness activities that encourage students to focus on their well-being during the learning process.

25.
- Use stretching techniques during class breaks to help students relax.
- Incorporate mindfulness meditation practices to help students pause and breathe.
- Share stress reduction tips and resources with students.
- Facilitate quick class check-in activities to promote social connection.
- Implement 5-minute well-being activities that require no preparation.
- Encourage self-reflection through tools like the reality check reflection tool.

26.
To utilize team-based learning to enhance student connections, you can:

1. Organize students into diverse teams to promote collaboration.
2. Assign team projects that require collective problem-solving and decision-making.
3. Implement peer evaluations to encourage accountability and constructive feedback.
4. Foster team discussions and reflections to deepen understanding and relationships.
5. Create opportunities for teams to present their work, allowing for shared successes and recognition.
6. Use team-based activities that require communication and cooperation to achieve common goals.

27.
1. Explore tips for creating an Accessible Learning Environment.
2. Implement Universal Design principles in the classroom and online.
3. Use digital tools to support student engagement and collaboration.
4. Incorporate flexible assignment designs that cater to diverse learning needs.
5. Provide support and resources for English as an Additional Language (EAL) students.
6. Foster inclusivity by sharing pronoun etiquette and encouraging self-identification.
7. Use the Inclusive Classrooms Checklist to ensure diverse learning needs are met.

28.
1. Ten Strategies for Inclusivity in Remote or Online Learning Environments
2. Active Learning Techniques
3. Team Based Learning
4. Using Digital Tools to Support Student Engagement, Collaboration, and Well-being
5. Tips for an Accessible Learning Environment
6. Universal Design for Learning in Post-secondary Education
7. Intercultural Competencies
8. Supporting EAL Learners
9. Creative Pre-class Activities for Social Connectedness and Student Engagement
10. Comment Card for feedback
11. Class Check In Activity for social connection
12. Get to Know Your Prof methods for relationship building
13. Celebratory Research Poster Sessions for student engagement
14. Include resources for trans and queer supportive spaces.

29.
- Explore ideas on digital tools and strategies that instructors and students can use to increase student engagement and facilitate collaboration. 
- Incorporate digital tools that enhance interactivity and participation in the learning process.
- Utilize platforms for group work and discussions to foster collaboration among students.
- Use online resources and applications that allow for real-time feedback and communication.
- Implement tools that enable creative project submissions and presentations.

30.
Well-being check-ins are brief activities or prompts designed to gauge and enhance student well-being in learning environments. To implement them, you can embed quick check-in questions or activities into your online learning platform, such as Canvas, allowing students to reflect on their feelings, stress levels, or overall well-being. This can be as simple as asking students to share how they are feeling at the start or end of a class or providing a set of questions for them to respond to. The content can be copied and pasted directly into your course materials.

