1.
Mid-April to end of August 2026; September 2026 to April 2027.

2.
12-16 client hours per week.

3.
January 30, 2026.

4.
Students will work with clinical concerns including depression, anxiety, neurodiversity, stress, relationship issues, trauma, and more.

5.
Applicants should contact Lyndsay Cotterall at lyndsays@sfu.ca or David Lindskoog at dlindsko@sfu.ca for more information about the practicum opportunities.

6.
The commitment required for the eight-month practicum placement is 2.5 to 2.75 days per week at the Burnaby campus.

7.
Pre-doctoral students must have completed their foundational pre-doctoral coursework in intervention and assessment and ideally should be already masters level clinical counsellors with some experience in risk assessment.

8.
Unpaid.

9.
The primary focus of the residency program is to provide training in advanced generalist primary care, preparing residents to serve diverse clients across a broad range of settings, and to gain generalist experience that will prepare them for independent practice or residency programs.

10.
At least 1,600 hours of supervised training.

11.
- Professional practice competencies
- Ethics
- Diversity
- Case conceptualization
- Assessment
- Treatments
- Supervision training
- Trauma-informed care
- Anti-oppressive care
- Neurodivergent-affirming care
- Human rights and social justice implications for psychological practice
- Systemic perspective and advocacy skills

12.
Monday, December 9, 2024.

13.
1. Completed application form
2. Reference letters 
3. Online link to mock demonstration videos

14.
Yes, successful applicants will be required to present a Criminal Records Search attesting they are cleared to work with minors and members of vulnerable populations, prior to commencing the residency.

15.
Generous support for professional development is provided to supplement the training that residents receive on-site.

16.
The training site is located at the SFU Burnaby campus.

17.
Simon Fraser University (SFU) addresses diversity and equity in its programs by committing to the principle of equity in employment, welcoming applications from all qualified students, and emphasizing a diverse student population composed of individuals from various cultural, socio-economic, sexual orientation, gender identity, neurodivergence, age, and ability backgrounds. The programs also aim to employ an anti-oppressive lens, promote trauma-informed care, and consider human rights and social justice implications in psychological practice. Additionally, they encourage students to develop advocacy skills relevant to their work.

18.
The didactic training program for residents covers professional practice competencies, ethics, diversity, case conceptualization, assessment, treatments, and supervision training.

19.
The practicum is designed to enable students to further develop their counselling skills, interests, and professional identities while working with an integrated team of counselling, medical, and health promotion professionals. It provides experience with a range of clinical concerns, including depression, anxiety, neurodiversity, stress, relationship issues, and trauma.

20.
Reference letters should be sent by the reference writers via email to adassist@sfu.ca.

