1.
- Associate Director, Health Services
- Associate Director, Counselling Services
- Physician Lead
- Physicians
- Psychiatrist
- Mental Health Nurses
- Registered Nurses
- Transition Case Manager
- Registered Clinical Counsellors
- Registered Psychologists
- Medical Office Assistants
- Administrative Assistant
- Billing Clerk
- Billing Assistant

2.
French, Mandarin, Latvian, Cantonese, Mandarin, Patois

3.
Les maintains a practical, relational, and integrative approach to therapy influenced by Process Experiential/Emotion Focused Theory. He emphasizes belonging, connection, compassion, and curiosity, inviting clients to feel seen, heard, and understood. He is sensitive to issues of identity, diversity, and race, assisting clients in addressing distressing thematic patterns and emotions that may impair their journey toward healing and change.

4.
Les has been supporting SFU students for over 20 years.

5.
Lyndsay oversees the Hi-FIVE Movement for Mental Health Program at SFU.

6.
Angela utilizes a client-centered perspective, healing power of humour, creative expression, and metaphors in her practice.

7.
Shona trained as a Clinical Psychologist in Oxford, U.K. She is a dual citizen who immigrated to Canada at the age of 10, having previously lived in South Africa, Thailand, and Malaysia. She predominantly uses a Human Givens and CBT approach and specializes in treating traumas and complex mental health disorders.

8.
Jennifer has over 18 years of experience engaging with First Nation’s, Métis, and Inuit peoples, and has worked with Canada’s northernmost Indigenous communities, as well as in Saskatchewan, Alberta, and British Columbia. Her advocacy work includes project evaluation, implementation, and mental health counselling, mentoring, and supervision of students, with a focus on supporting connections with Elders and cultural teachings.

9.
Cantonese, Mandarin, English

10.
Wayne's focus in his counselling practice includes anxiety, depression, stress management, procrastination, learning skills, and career development.

11.
Sarah creates a supportive environment for her clients by providing a collaborative, safe, and nurturing space that honors their unique experiences, culture, histories, and identity. She is passionate about helping her clients recognize their personal strengths and develop key skills and strategies to address their concerns.

12.
Shereen brings lived experiences as an immigrant, as an expat, and as an international student at various stages in her life and in many countries around the globe.

13.
Emotion-focused, narrative, and cognitive-behavioral therapy.

14.
Tricia specializes in treating trauma, anxiety, transitional/career issues, and relational issues.

15.
Tanu approaches counselling with Indigenous students from a trauma-informed, feminist, and anti-oppressive framework, considering the multiple and complex layers of Indigenous students' lives that impact their mental health and well-being. She strives to create a safe, warm, and empathic environment where students can feel heard and supported. Her approach is flexible and holistic, based on what fits best with a student's lived experience and current needs.

16.
Alex's focus area as a temporary counsellor is for 2SLGBTQIA+ students.

17.
Shahla incorporates animal-assisted therapy into her therapy sessions.

18.
Doriana obtained her education in psychology from Simon Fraser University and holds a Master's Degree in Counselling.

19.
Practicum students at SFU provide counselling support under supervision, gaining practical experience in various therapeutic approaches. They assist in individual and group counselling sessions, contributing to the mental health services offered to students.

20.
Email: admin_assistant@sfu.ca  
Phone: 778.782.4655

