I 

Help prevent the spread of respiratory infections. Medical grade masks are available at all times in our clinics, just ask if you do not see one available. If you are sick, please sanitize your hands and wear a mask within office spaces. If you have any questions, please discuss with your doctor or nurse.

Medical services are available to SFU students currently enrolled in classes. Health & Counselling operates two medical clinics located on the Burnaby and Vancouver campuses with services in-person or by phone/virtual for all students.

Make an appointment to discuss:


See hours, location, and booking info

Note: Same-day access is limited. We do experience medical appointment wait times. Appointments can be made for in-person, or by phone/virtually. For alternative medical clinics close to your location, please visit medimap.ca.

stethoscope Nurses are available for a variety of concerns. 

Find out more

Instructors may require documentation for concessions due to minor short-term illnesses (typically lasting 1–5 days). For these absences, students should use the self-declaration form, as SFU will not require medical notes for minor absences during this period. However, if a student needs to be absent for an extended time, they should be prepared to provide additional medical documentation. 

Although a doctor's note may not be necessary, students are encouraged to connect with their healthcare providers or reach out to Health & Counselling Services for support and consultation if needed. See how to get a doctor’s note for missed classes.

For more information about academic concessions, including forms related to illness, accidents, family situations, and chronic health concerns, please click here. If you have any questions about this process or policy, or if you are receiving conflicting information from a class, please contact the Office of Student Support, Rights, and Responsibilities for assistance.

All SFU students are required to have medical insurance from the BC Medical Services Plan (BC MSP). This plan will cover the basic medical services you receive at SFU clinics.

For instructions on how to apply for BC MSP, and information on International Student coverage, please see SFU's Medical Insurance page. 

Health & Counselling (HCS) shares one unit of confidentiality. This means that divisions of HCS may share your information when necessary for your care.

All records within HCS are confidential. Personal information can only be released outside the centre with your written consent. Exceptions are only made in the case of life-threatening emergencies or as required by law and/or public health regulations.

When you use any service with Health & Counselling, our staff must collect some of your personal information. We may also need to collect information from other health care providers, friends, or family in order to provide comprehensive care or service.

When we collect this information, we will advise you. Only in exceptional circumstances can we collect information about you from other people without your consent. We are authorized to collect this information under the Protection of Privacy Act, the Medicare Protection Act, Medical Practitioner's Act, and Health Professionals Act.

Your information may be used for your present and future care or service, continuity of treatment, quality of care and service review, and teaching, education, and research.

If you are not taking classes this term at SFU, visit this page for health resources.

Learn more

NOTICE: No Show & Late Cancellation Fees will be reinstated as of October 1, 2024

New to BC or Canada?

View medical insurance info

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


