I 

Instructors or Academic Heads can modify or alter course requirements (e.g., midterms, assignments) for special reasons, such as illness, or personal issues. They may request a “sick note” (aka “medical note”) to help them make their decisions; however, the final decision about whether a modification of course requirements is required or will be permitted rests with the instructor, regardless of what may be stated on any medical note. The physicians at Health & Counselling (HCS) or anywhere else do not have the authority to exempt students from exams, assignments, etc. 

We encourage all undergraduate students to review the SFU Student Services withdrawals policy, and to discuss extensions, deferrals, and withdrawals with your professors and/or teaching assistants before requesting documentation from staff at HCS.

Supporting documents are provided at the discretion of the professional staff member when:

In addition, you need to demonstrate that you have a relevant issues management plan for the future. Not to worry—HCS staff can help you develop your strategy and resolve your problem creatively and definitively.

Where a requested change to course requirements relates to the impact of a permanent disability, as opposed to routine illness, students are required to work with the Centre for Students with Disabilities to address their needs.

Fraser International College's policy states that you do not need a sick note from a doctor for minor, short term illnesses (like a cold or flu) that prevent you from attending class or writing an exam.   

Students in graduate studies often have complex responsibilities outside their life as a student. Work, family, and health can all require attention, and may interrupt a student's program of study and research. Accordingly, we have instituted a number of policies to help students manage their complex lives.

Please note that, in order to be fair to all students, we keep strictly to rules and deadlines when implementing these policies.

We also suggest that students inform their graduate programs and their senior supervisors of impending problems and interruptions. Please review the graduate students leaves and withdrawal policy for further information.

If you have any further questions, please contact the Dean of Graduate Studies Office at 778-782-3042.

If your instructor has not outlined a process to follow and you find yourself unable to meet your course commitments due to something beyond your control you should do the following:

Health & Counselling staff can only provide supporting documentation. Any decision to authorize a withdrawal or deferral is made by the instructor or departmental chair.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


