You have been automatically enrolled in a mandatory 4 month primary medical insurance plan through guard.me@SFU.

You can opt out of (cancel) guard.me@SFU temporary medical insurance plan if you are studying outside of Canada or if you have one of the eligible plans. Most exchange students are not eligible to opt out.

Cost: $281 per term
Enrolment: Automatic 
More Info: guard.me@SFU website

*prices are subject to change without notice

What is guard.me@SFU?

guard.me@SFU is a short term primary medical insurance coverage. The goal of guard.me@SFU is to provide you with comprehensive primary medical coverage during your exchange duration. You will be automatically enrolled in to this plan after course enrollment. Your coverage through guard.me@SFU will be as follows, depending on the term you will be attending SFU.

What if I will be in BC beyond the end date of my guard.me@SFU coverage?

If you stay in BC past the dates you will have guard.me@SFU coverage through SFU, you will need to purchase additional coverage directly from guard.me Canada or another insurance provider (with potentially different coverage).

How do I get the policy/ certificate number?

You will receive a welcome email from guard.me@SFU at the beginning of semester. This email will include a link to log into your account to view your policy details. You can view and download your Healthcare Access Card (HAC) which is your proof of insurance and will have your name, student number, policy number, and policy start and end date. You can also log in via Guard.me@SFU website.

This card can be used for direct billing at some pharmacies, medical clinics, and dental offices. Make sure to keep this for future reference as you will need it for direct billing or to submit a claim.  If you have not received an email from guard.me@SFU, please contact them at customercare@guard.me.

How and when can I opt out of guard.me@SFU?

To opt-out of guard.me@SFU, visit their website. Click the appropriate category and follow the opt-out instructions. To see the opt out deadlines for guard.me@SFU click here. Most exchange students are not eligible to opt out.

Note: changes may not be reflected right away.

How can I make claims?

When visiting any of the SFU Health Clinics, print out a copy of your Healthcare Access Card (HAC) from guard.me@SFU website. The HAC is your proof of insurance containing your coverage information. They will collect a copy for each visit and will directly bill guard.me@SFU on your behalf. No additional claim is required. You can search Guard.me preferred clinics near your location here. These clinics will allow direct billing.

For clinics that do not allow direct billing, you will need to pay upfront for the visit. Keep copies of all your payment receipts. To submit a claim, please visit guard.me@SFU to create an online account and upload copies of your receipts.

You will not receive a secondary medical insurance plan through SFU. You may wish to purchase coverage through a private insurance agent. The guard.me@SFU plan includes some limited secondary benefits, please see the detailed plan information.

Facebook
Twitter
YouTube

See Contact us


