As a student at SFU, you are entitled to learning, studying and working in an environment that is civil, safe and respectful of your rights, well-being and dignity. The Office of Student Support, Rights & Responsibilities (OSSRR) is dedicated to helping students navigate unique challenges by offering personalized case management for situations that are affecting your academic learning or decision making. Whether you are reaching out about your own experience or reporting conduct you’ve witnessed in class, our office is here to support you.  

You can contact the OSSRR by:

Phone: 778.782.5699
Email: ssrr@sfu.ca
Online: Online Form

Inquiries will be monitored from 9:00am to 4:30pm Monday through Friday, excluding holidays. 

There are several student support services in place to guide you through difficult situations and where possible, provide further protection from harm. In some cases, we may recommend a report be submitted to a specific support office, and next steps will be reinforced through SFU policies and procedures.

If you or someone you know are in immediate danger, call 911.

SFU offers a range of supports and services to students to help you thrive inside and outside the classroom. To view the full range of services, such as the Centre for Accessible Learning, Multifaith Centre, Sexual Violence Support and Prevention Office, Health and Counselling Services, and more, please visit:

Student Support & Services

Community Supports

To distinguish between behaviours of concern and instances of misconduct, begin by identifying the experience or behaviour you are witnessing, then read the recommended response below.

You are uncomfortable with a student's behaviour but the student is not acting in a way that is distressed, disruptive, disturbing or dangerous. Read more →

A student seems distressed in word, appearance or action but behaviour is not disruptive. Read more →

A student's behaviour is disruptive: examples include yelling or refusing to follow direction; sending numerous repetitive emails or phone calls. Read more →

A student's behaviour is disturbing: examples include aggression, though not directed at specific people; destruction or damage to property; indirect aggressive words or actions; fascination with violence by words or action. Read more →

A student discloses a history of violence (as participant or recipient) and/or fear of someone coming to harm them.

and/or

A student exhibits persistent, unwanted or obsessive contact or other harassment by phone, email or in person. Read more →

A student expresses by word or action a direct threat to harm self or others. Read more →

FacebookTwitterYouTube

