Short Term Faculty Benefit Plan


Paid Visiting Faculty and Faculty Appointments of 1 year or less.

Please click on the appropriate link for further information on specific employee benefits and forms can be found here.

 

Extended Health Care Plan 
(Article 43):  Pacific Blue Cross (PBC)

80% Reimbursement


Paramedic visit fees apply. Please refer to booklet linked above or PBC CaresNet for details.  

*New Residents*  Enrolment with the BC Medical Services Plan is mandatory for all BC residents.

 

First day of the month coincident with or following appointment, or on the date MSP** commences.

**In British Columbia, newcomers are subject to a 3-month waiting period before their Medical Services Plan (MSP) coverage begins. This period includes the remainder of the month they arrive plus the following two months. During this time, MSP does not cover medical services. It is recommended to either self-obtain private health insurance or coordinate with the former medical plan from the province you move from, to cover any potential healthcare needs.

· Information on eligibility, enrolment and managing your MSP account is available at BC MSP.

· Application is made directly to Health Insurance BC and you will be enrolled on a self-administered MSP account.

· Any changes to your account (ie. address change, add/remove dependent) are made directly with Health Insurance BC.

Basic Accidental Death & Dismemberment Insurance
(Article 43): Industrial Alliance

$10,000                              


First day actively at work.

 

 

First day of month following receipt of application.

 

Pensions (Article 43)

BC College Pension Plan
(BCCPP) Guide for Plan Members

Please refer to Simon Fraser University Faculty Association Collective Agreement for detailed information.

July 2025

*The information on this webpage describing your various employee benefits are only summaries of the legal contracts governing the Plans. While every effort has been made to describe the Plans accurately on this webpage, the legal documents will prevail if there is a variation between the two. The contracts are available for review in Human Resources.

Facebook
Twitter
YouTube

Hours 8:30am - 4:30pm (Monday - Thursday)
Telephone: 778 782 3237
Business Fax: 778 782 3449

People, Equity and Inclusion
Simon Fraser University
Strand Hall, Room 2170
8888 University Drive

