mobile only

Contact Us

Y Check out our What's Happening page for your go-to calendar of events, info sessions, and drop-in advising hours with International Services for Students.

Y  All new international undergraduate and graduate students beginning their studies at SFU this Spring 2026 are invited to our multi-part orientation series to get transition support and make connections.

Please note that our international student advisors do not advise on academic-related and permanent residence inquiries.

To learn more about academic advising, see Quick Links.  For information about applying for permanent residence in Canada, please visit the Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) website. 

i Please note:  The 2025 Provincial Attestation Letter (PAL) process has been finalized at SFU. If you need a PAL for your study permit application, please review our FAQ page here on how to obtain a PAL from SFU. 

The International Services for Students (ISS) office provides non-academic advising support to international students, including undergraduate, graduate students, and exchange students. 

Connect with an International Student Advisor for immigration and transition-related inquiries such as:  

Please note: International Student Advisors do not advise on permanent residence applications.

Drop-in (In-person)

Drop-in (Virtual)

Group Advising

Email Advising

Appointments

The International Student Experience Support is a suite of drop-in services offered by our team of professional staff and trained student advisors at the Global Student Centre (AQ 2013). Your experience as an international student matters and we are here to support you. GSC is your space to access a wide range of non-academic support and services throughout your time at SFU.

For questions regarding SFU admissions, Academic Advising or other Student Services, please see below.

Study Permit - Before you Arrive

Study Permit - After you Arrive

Medical Insurance

Non-Academic Enrollment Requirements

Employment Questions

Instruction Guides

Explore by Topic

Video Resources

Community Resources 

Post Graduation Resources

Welcome Guides

Get SFU Ready

Life In Vancouver

Housing

Finances

Instagram

Livechat
778.782.4232
intl_advising@sfu.ca

