In B.C., there are three primary pathways to access hormone therapy and puberty blockers. The availability of these options may depend on where you live and your primary care provider(s).

The options below describe three routes to access to care. That said, your individual pathway will depend on many factors that are unique to you. 

Many people choose to start the process by making an appointment with a primary care provider.

If you feel anxious about talking to your doctor, visit Speaking with Your Provider about Gender-Affirming Care for tips. 

Before prescribing hormones, a provider must assess your readiness for treatment (see below to learn how readiness is assessed). Many primary care providers can provide readiness assessments for hormone therapy. However, not all primary care providers feel comfortable assessing hormone readiness or initiating treatment. In this case, they may refer you to other providers. 

Your primary care provider can refer you to an endocrinologist (hormone specialist). Before they start treatment, an endocrinologist will require a hormone readiness assessment completed by another clinician (like a mental health clinician).  

Before you start the assessment process, it is important to ask the endocrinologist which providers they accept hormone readiness assessment letters from. Either you or the assessor can check with the endocrinologist’s office before starting the readiness assessment. 

Depending on where you live, your age and other factors, you may be able to access a clinic or provider that provides trans-specific care. There is a lot of variability across these clinics and providers in B.C. Some require referrals and some do not. Unfortunately, these options are not available everywhere in all regions of B.C.  

You can contact Trans Care BC’s health navigation team for more information on trans-specific clinics and care providers.

As we mentioned above, you do not need to engage an assessor if your primary care provider can provide the readiness assessment. In some cases, however, a primary care provider may recommend an assessment from a mental health provider. 

If you choose to work with an endocrinologist, you’ll need to engage a mental health professional who can provide a readiness assessment (such as a counsellor, social worker, psychologist or psychiatrist). 

Most mental health providers are private-pay. There are some public (free) options for hormone readiness assessment in the community; these may require a referral. If you have been told to get an assessment from a mental health provider or if you need information on low-cost options, you can contact Trans Care BC. 

A hormone readiness assessment is an evaluation conducted by a qualified professional to determine if a patient is ready to begin hormone therapy. The WPATH Standards of Care
        Guidelines created by the World Professional Association for Transgender Health (WPATH) to help health care providers offer quality care for transgender and gender-diverse individuals. These standards outline best practices for diagnosis, treatment, and support with the aim of ensuring respectful and affirming health care experiences.
         requires an assessment before hormone therapy starts. 

The length of the assessment period depends on the health care provider, clinic protocols and your needs.

Assessments may take longer if someone has physical health, mental health or substance use issues. These concerns are not barriers to hormone therapy, but need to be considered when making a plan for treatment. 

Some people feel anxious about the readiness assessment. They worry about saying the wrong thing and being denied treatment that is very important to their health and wellbeing. 

It may ease your fears to know that the focus of the assessment is on supporting you. Your assessor or primary care provider will ask you about:

Your prescribing provider may recommend a physical exam to check your heart and lungs. They will give you a requisition to do some laboratory work, such as a blood test. 

If you are a young person seeking puberty blockers or hormone therapy, your health care provider will need to consider additional factors because of your age and stage of development. 

For more information about the readiness assessment for puberty blockers, visit Puberty Blockers.

When you visit your health care provider to talk about starting hormones, they will likely want to discuss:

Youth typically live with parents or guardians, who may need additional information or support related to gender-affirming health care. You can follow up with your health care team to discuss sources of support for yourself, your family and other people in your life. 

First, it’s important to note that you do not have to be trans to be eligible for hormone therapy. Hormone therapy can be medically necessary
        Treatments, procedures or services that health care professionals determine are essential for diagnosing or treating a medical condition based on established medical guidelines and individual patient needs.
         for a range of people of all genders.

In B.C., health care is guided by Version 8 of the Standards of Care, which were published in 2022 by WPATH
        World Professional Association for Transgender Health (WPATH) is a professional organization devoted to transgender health, whose mission as an international multidisciplinary professional association is to promote evidence-based care, education, research, advocacy, public policy and respect in transgender health. 
        . These standards of care outline a number of criteria for hormone therapy. As part of your assessment, the assessor will confirm you meet these criteria.

For adults, the WPATH SOC-8 criteria for hormone eligibility are:

For adolescents, WPATH SOC-8 criteria for hormone therapy eligibility are:

In some cases, health care providers may prescribe hormones even when these criteria are not met. For example, a health care provider may use a harm reduction approach and prescribe hormone therapy as an alternative to someone obtaining hormones outside the health care system. 

It is important to note that having mental health concerns (such as depression or anxiety) or addiction does not necessarily mean you do not meet the criteria. Instead, these concerns will need to be reasonably managed prior to, or during, hormone therapy.

Counselling is not typically required to get a prescription for hormones although it can be very helpful for some people. It may be recommended or required if:

There are health risks associated with buying or borrowing hormone medications rather than getting a prescription from a health care provider. 

You cannot be sure about the quality and dosage of the product. Unlike medications from a pharmacy, they may be diluted or mixed with unknown substances. In addition, the safe dosage required for optimal effects varies from person to person and cannot be determined without blood work.

If you are currently taking hormones without a prescription and would like to connect with a health care provider for a prescription and blood work, please contact the Trans Care BC health navigation team.

Contact our team of experienced health navigators for information about gender-affirming care in B.C.

PHSA provides specialized health care services to communities across British Columbia, on the territories of many distinct First Nations. We are grateful to all the First Nations who have cared for and nurtured the lands and waters around us for all time, including the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish Nation), and səl̓ílwətaʔ (Tsleil-Waututh Nation) on whose unceded and ancestral territory our head office is located. 

