Note: In Canada, there are two types of medical insurance: primary and secondary. At SFU both Primary and Secondary Medical Insurance are required.

Note: Both Primary Insurance and Secondary Insurance are required.

Primary medical insurance covers services that require medical attention, such as visits to doctors, hospital stays and diagnostic medical testing. Primary medical insurance is legally required for all residents of British Columbia and is provided through the BC Medical Services Plan (MSP).

Moving to BC from another province?

Canadian students who do not plan to take up permanent residence in BC may be able to remain on your home province's medical plan. Check with your home province.

If you are not able to remain on your home province coverage, you must apply for the BC's Medical Services Plan.

Are you a Canadian citizen or permanent resident moving to Canada? 

You must apply for the BC's Medical Services Plan. You must also ensure that you have medical insurance during the waiting period coverage gap.

Canadian citizens and permanents residents of Canada cannot be enrolled in guard.me@SFU plan, it is therefore your responsibility to ensure you have appropriate medical coverage while you study at SFU.

Cost: Medical Services Plan (MSP) premiums were eliminated as of January 1, 2020.
Enrolment: Need to apply
More Info: BC MSP website

What is the BC Medical Services Plan (MSP)?

Students staying in BC for 6 months or longer are required to enrol in the British Columbia Medical Services Plan under the Medicare Protection Act. There is a wait period of 2-3 months for new residents. In order to be covered during the wait period you may purchase a private medical insurance plan or please contact International Services for Students to learn about medical insurance options.

BC MSP provides primary medical coverage such as:

How and when can I apply for MSP?

To apply for BC MSP, complete the MSP Application online at this website.

If you are eligible, you can apply as soon as you arrive in BC. Please note there is a wait period of 2-3 months for new residents before your coverage begins. In order to be covered during the wait period you may purchase a private medical insurance plan or please contact International Services for Students to learn about medical insurance options.

If you are a returning student travelling back to BC, in order to be covered during the wait period you may purchase a private medical insurance plan. Please contact International Services for Students about temporary medical insurance options to cover the MSP waiting period. 

How does BC MSP work?

Once enrolled, BC MSP will mail you a BC Services Card. When visiting a health clinic or hospital, you will be asked to show your BC Services Card as proof of enrolment. You will not be required to pay for the visit, they will bill BC MSP directly. 

Secondary medical insurance generally covers vision care, prescription drugs, dental and extended health care. Eligible SFU students receive secondary medical insurance through the SFSS/GSS Extended Health and Dental Plan.

Do you already have an equivalent secondary medical insurance plan? OPT OUT of the GSS Health and Dental Plan.

Cost: 

Enrolment: Automatic (except if starting in summer term). May-start students can self-enrol for their first semester at SFU during the Change-of-Coverage Period.

More Info: GSS Health and Dental Plan website

What is the GSS Health and Dental Plan?

The Graduate Student Society (GSS) health and dental plan is in place to complement primary medical coverage (ie. BC MSP). Services not included by primary coverage (ie. vision and dental care) are included in the GSS plan.

Eligible students are automatically covered by and billed for applicable portions of the student plan (except if entering in summer term). Note that plan benefits are only accessible within Canada.

How and when can I opt out of the GSS Health and Dental Plan?

You may opt out of the GSS Health and Dental plan if you have existing secondary coverage in BC. To opt out, you will be required to upload proof of coverage on the GSS Health and Dental website during the Change-of-Coverage Period.

Please visit their website for more information. 

How can I make claims?

You can claim online, through a mobile app, or by mail.

Please allow up to two weeks for claims to be processed. 

For claim forms and more information, please visit the GSS Health and Dental website. 

I would like to speak to a representative about my secondary medical insurance. Who should I contact?

You can reach a representative by calling the Care Centre at 236-427-8123, Mon. - Fri. from 9 am to 5 pm. Or you can visit Studentcare Care Office in-person which is located at the Student Union Building (SUB) 2301 on SFU Burnaby campus, Mon. - Fri. from 9 am to 5 pm.

If you have an active TSSU appointment, you may also choose to opt into a private extended health plan (Pacific Blue Cross). For more information, visit the SFU Human Resources TSSU website.

Facebook
Twitter
YouTube

See Contact us


