SexandU.ca takes a real-life approach to the questions and issues around sex and sexuality that matter most to Canadians. From talking about sex, to lifestyle choices, to contraception awareness and sexually transmitted infections, SexandU.ca provides accurate, credible, and up-to-date information and education on topics related to sexual and reproductive health.

SexandU.ca is an initiative of the Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of Canada, Canada’s leading authority on sexual and reproductive health.

There is a safe exit button at the top right corner of every page if you need to leave this website quickly.

Consent is a voluntary agreement to engage in sexual activity.

Helping you make decisions about contraception.

Your guide to taking contraception after a missed or extended dose.

Stay up to date on the latest scientific facts on sexual health topics.



Your Email Address *


Submit


With so many options available, making the right decisions about contraception can be overwhelming.

It’s a Plan was created to help you and your health care provider determine the contraception method that is best for you.

Taking hormonal contraception means trying to stay on schedule with your doses,
which isn’t always easy to do.

The Stay on Schedule tool is your guide for knowing what to do if you miss a dose
or forget to take your birth control on time.



About the SOGC

The Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of Canada (SOGC) is a professional health association representing a multidisciplinary membership of over 3,500 health professionals, including obstetricians, gynaecologists, family physicians, nurses, midwives, and allied health professionals, all working in the field of sexual and reproductive health.

The Society’s mission is to promote excellence in the practice of obstetrics and gynaecology, and to advance the health of women at home and around the world through leadership, advocacy, collaboration, and education.

The SOGC is Canada’s leading authority on sexual and reproductive health and produces national guidelines for public and medical education.

 

If you have any questions on our website content, or requests for topics on which more information is needed, please contact us here.

Copyright © 2025

We use cookies to improve functionality and performance. By clicking "OK" or by continuing to browse this site, you agree to the use of cookies. To find out more, visit the cookies section of our privacy policy.

