

As a current International Student studying at SFU, you will be enrolled in GuardMe@SFU’s Insurance plan as of September 1, 2025. This plan is mandatory for students who are studying in Canada.

If you are not in Canada, the GuardMe@SFU Insurance plan is not available to you and you MUST OPT OUT by completing the Out of Canada Waiver in order to receive a credit to your student account. The deadline to complete this opt out waiver is September 30, 2025.

If you already have valid coverage through BC Medical Services Plan (MSP), are studying at SFU under a government sponsored scholarship program, you may be able to opt out of the GuardMe@SFU Plan

If you qualify to opt out by the deadline, we will advise SFU of your eligibility and the charge will be reversed on your SFU account. The deadline to complete this opt out waiver is September 30, 2025.

You may be eligible for a refund of the unused portion of your insurance if you have not made a claim and there is at least 1 month of coverage remaining when you apply through guard.me. Your application for a partial reimbursement must be received by guard.me before the last month of the term e.g. before April 1, August 1, and December 1.

Eligible Plans

Proof of MSP must include a photo of your MSP card plus one of the following:

No additional document is required if MSP card is issued more than 3 months prior to start of the semester.

If you are waiting for your MSP card to arrive, you can submit a letter from BC MSP. The letter must include both start and end dates of your MSP coverage. To request the letter from MSP, please visit BC MSP page


GuardMe a proudly Canadian-owned and independent company,
            has been unwavering in its commitment to safeguarding international students, staff, and schools since 1998.
            For nearly three decades, we've poured ourselves into building strong partnerships with educational institutions
            to bolster student support and foster safe, nurturing learning environments that make a difference.
        


            As a trailblazer in the industry, GuardMe was the first
            to introduce a Wellness Program, recognizing that
            mental health is just as vital as physical well-being. Our 24/7 multilingual mental health helpline, virtual
            counselling, and crisis intervention services provide immediate, culturally sensitive support, empowering
            students to navigate life abroad confidently.
        


GuardMe was also the first provider to achieve ISO and
            SOC 2 compliance in both security and privacy.
            Unlike our venture-capital-backed competitors, we store all student data exclusively in Canadian data centres,
            safeguarded by some of the world's strictest privacy laws. With advanced encryption and continuous investment
            in security innovations, we set the industry benchmark for data protection.
        


		keep.meSAFE’s innovative Student Support Program (SSP) helps students by promoting early
		intervention and 24/7 access to mental health support. We help students manage their mental
		health so they can fully participate in academic life and complete their studies. keep.meSAFE
		is the first support program to use linguistically and culturally matched licensed clinicians,
		providing your students a welcoming place where they are comfortable to seek help.
	


		Contact our keep.meSAFE sales team,
 [email protected]
 www.keepmesafe.org
		If this is an emergency, please call 911 immediately.



			Studying at college or university whether in another country or another city can be a wonderful and exciting life experience.
			But it can also be a time of tremendous stress and isolation as you learn to navigate a new landscape and begin campus life.
		


			The GuardMe Student Support Program is a support service available to eligible students that can help
			them with challenges faced when studying or living abroad. You can contact GMSSP anytime – day or night – to speak with
			a counsellor who has experience supporting the unique challenges students face.
		

Download the TELUS Student Support App from either the Apple App Store or Google Play 

Call 1-844-451-9700

Outside North America 001-416-380-6578

Chat directly with a counsellor through the app.

Visit www.gmssp.org  to learn more!

Follow us!
                    
Facebook
                     |
                    
X
                     |
                    
Instagram
                    


GMSSP is completely confidential within the limits of the law,
					so no one – including your family, friends, or professors – will ever know you 
					used the program unless you choose to tell them


mobileDOCTOR by guard.me allows you to connect with Canadian
			doctors on Maple, a telemedicine company, as a part of your health
			benefits. Maple provides access to doctors, Canada wide, on your
			phone, tablet or computer anytime, anywhere.
		


			Seeing a doctor on Maple is safe and reliable, and can help prevent
			the need to go to a walk-in clinic or Emergency Room.
		


			When outside of Canada the Mobile Doctor service connecting you
				to a Canadian doctor in real time remains available 24/7 for advice
				purposes only.
		

You will need your policy number and date of birth.

Click the “See The Doctor” button and a Maple doctor will respond to you in minutes.
						You can have your consultation by text, video, or audio chat.
					

Doctors can diagnose injuries and illnesses, write prescriptions, and provide lab requisitions, all within your consultation. Please note that only eligible prescriptions and lab requisitions are covered by guard.me and can only be provided if you are in Canada. 



				Sign up today at guard.me/mobiledoctorOpens a new window



The Insurer, the Plan Administrator and/or the Claim Administrator are not responsible for the availability,
			quality or results of any Medical Treatment, or Your failure to obtain Medical Treatment or transportation
			and shall not be held liable for any negligence, wrongful acts or omissions of any service providers.


			Please write to us at:
 [email protected]


Your choice regarding cookies on this site


				We use cookies to optimize site functionality and give you the best possible experience.			


Privacy NoticeOpens a new window |
					Terms of UseOpens a new window |
                    AccessibilityOpens a new window
					                         | Cobrowse

					© 2025 GuardMe. Insurance underwritten by Old Republic Insurance Company of Canada. All rights reserved.
				


					We use cookies to optimize site functionality and give you the best possible experience.  Cookie Notice


This website uses cookies to remember users and understand ways to enhance their experience.

Some cookies are essential, others help us improve your experience by providing insights into how the site is used.


					These cookies are required for optimal user movement throughout our website and for providing access features such
					locating important clinic locations, accessing your account, and making purchases. These cookies are not used for marketing
					purposes and do not remember other places you have travelled to on the internet. In order to access the MyAccount function
					on our website, this essential cookie must be enabled.
				


					We use Google Analytics cookies to collect data about how visitors are utilizing our website.  These cookies collect information
					to provide us knowledge about how the website is being used. All data collected through Google Analytics is transferred and stored
					through Google on Google Servers located in the United States. Google may also transfer information to third parties where required
					to do so by law, or where such third parties process the information on Google’s behalf. Google will not associate your IP address
					with any other data held by Google. Please review our "Cookie Notice" (link above) for a description about how we use these cookies
					in more detail.
				


					These cookies are essential for the website to function and support chat and co-browse service.
				



