You will need an access code to create a new account. Don’t have an access code? Request one here.





 

 

GetCheckedOnline is available at select LifeLabs locations in British Columbia.​ 

You can now choose to collect a vaginal swab instead of a urine sample for gonorrhea and chlamydia testing. 
         
Learn more​.

For some STI testing, it's better to see a health care provider in person.



​An easy way to test for STIs without visiting a health care provider. Create a lab form from our online assessment, and bring it to a participating lab to provide your samples for testing. You get your results online or by phone. 


Learn more

​​Testing is free, and available to anyone who can visit a participating 
      Lab Location. The service is only available in some communities in British Columbia.​


Learn more


                            You can contact us if you have any questions. For more information about sexual health and STIs, visit
                            SmartSexResource.

It is a good idea to be tested regularly for STIs, especially if you have new or casual sexual partners.  Being informed, communicating with partners, and using safer sex practices are ways to help improve your sexual health.

Your privacy is important to us.  Any personal information collected is protected and described in our Privacy Policy.

Need more information or someone to talk to?  There are lots of online resources and local services that can help.


         GetCheckedOnline is operated by the BC Centre for Disease Control, which is located on the ancestral, traditional and unceded territories of the Coast Salish Peoples, including the xʷməθkwəy̓əm (Musqueam), Skwxwú7mesh (Squamish), and sel̓íl̓witulh (Tsleil-waututh) Nations. 
        


        PHSA improves the health of British Columbians by seeking province-wide solutions to specialized health care needs in collaboration with BC health authorities and other partners. Learn more about our 
        agencies & services.
        



We’d love to hear any suggestions you have to make this service better.

