Note: Both Primary Insurance and Secondary Insurance are required.

Note: In Canada, there are two types of medical insurance: primary and secondary. At SFU both Primary and Secondary Medical Insurance are required.

If you have an active TSSU appointment, visit the International Teaching Assistants page. 

Primary medical insurance covers services that require medical attention, such as visits to doctors, hospital stays and diagnostic medical testing. Primary medical insurance is legally required for all residents of British Columbia (including international students) and is provided through the BC Medical Services Plan (MSP).

BC MSP has a 3-month waiting period so new students should apply for BC MSP as soon as they arrive in BC. An interim solution for the waiting period is a short-term medical insurance plan called guard.me. You will be automatically enroled in the guard.me plan only for your first term; you need to ensure you will have valid BC MSP coverage as primary medical insurance afterwards. 

Staying in BC for 6 months or longer?

Under the Medicare Protection Act, enrolment with the Medical Services Plan (MSP) is mandatory for all eligible residents and their dependents.

If you are in BC and have not done so already, apply for the BC Medical Services Plan (MSP) right away. 

If this is your first term at SFU and:

you may be able to opt out of the guard.me@SFU temporary medical insurance plan, if you have not used it. To opt out of guard.me@SFU, visit their website before the deadline. 

If this is not your first term at SFU and you opted out of the guard.me@SFU plan, because you were not in Canada:

When you travel to Canada, please contact International Services for Students to learn about medical insurance options to cover your BC MSP waiting period.

Moving to BC from another province?

If you are currently covered by another provincial medical insurance plan, you may be able to opt out of the guard.me@SFU plan. Ensure you contact your Provincial or Territorial health plan provider to inquire about coverage while in British Columbia (BC). Please note that SFU and guard.me will not review your home insurance plan. 

If you are not able to remain on your home province or territory plan, you cannot opt out from guard.me@sfu and must apply for the BC's Medical Services Plan after your arrival in BC.

Cost: $281 for your first term at SFU*

Enrolment: Automatic (upon enrolment in classes) for your first term only

More Info: guard.me@SFU website

What is guard.me@SFU?

Guard.me@SFU is a short term primary medical insurance coverage for your first term at SFU. The goal of guard.me@SFU is to help you transition while you are waiting for your BC MSP. If you plan to live in BC for more than 6 months, under the Medicare Protection Act, you must enrol with the mandatory BC Medical Services Plan.

How do I get the policy/ certificate number?

You will receive a welcome email from guard.me@SFU at the beginning of semester. This email will include a link to log into your account to view your policy details. You can view and download your Healthcare Access Card (HAC) which is your proof of insurance and will have your name, student number, policy number, and policy start and end date. You can also log in via Guard.me@SFU website.

This card can be used for direct billing at some pharmacies, medical clinics, and dental offices. Make sure to keep this for future reference as you will need it for direct billing or to submit a claim.  If you have not received an email from guard.me@SFU, please contact them at customercare@guard.me.

How and when can I opt out of guard.me@SFU?

You are only enrolled in guard.me@SFU plan for your first term at SFU. If you already have valid coverage through BC Medical Services Plan (MSP) or another Canadian provincial or territorial public health coverage, are studying at SFU under a government sponsored scholarship program, or you are outside of Canada you may be able to opt out of the guard.me@SFU Plan.

If you are opting out with another Canadian provincial or territorial public health coverage,ensure you contact your Provincial or Territorial health plan provider to inquire about coverage while in British Columbia (BC). Please note that SFU and guard.me will not review your home insurance plan. 

To opt out of guard.me@SFU medical insurance plan, please visit the opt out website. Select your appropriate student category and follow the opt out instructions. For opt out deadlines click here.

Note: changes may not be reflected right away.

Opting-out with BC MSP

In order to successfully opt-out from guard.me with BC MSP, you must submit proof of MSP which must include a photo of your MSP card plus one of the following additional documents:

Please note the following:

How can I make claims?

When visiting any of the SFU Health Clinics, print out a copy of your Healthcare Access Card (HAC) from guard.me@SFU website. The HAC is your proof of insurance containing your coverage information. They will collect a copy for each visit and will directly bill guard.me@SFU on your behalf. No additional claim is required. You can search Guard.me preferred clinics near your location here. These clinics will allow direct billing.

For clinics that do not allow direct billing, you will need to pay upfront for the visit. Keep copies of all your payment receipts. To submit a claim, please visit guard.me@SFU to create an online account and upload copies of your receipts.

I received my BC Services Card (MSP card) before the end of my first term. May I apply for a partial refund of the 4 month policy?

You may be eligible for a refund of the unused portion of your insurance if you have not made a claim and there is more than 1 month of coverage remaining when you apply through guard.me@SFU. Your application for a partial reimbursement must be received by guard.me@SFU before the last month of the term (that is, before April 1, August 1 and December 1). If approved, your partial refund will be applied to your SFU account.

If you are a TSSU member, in addition to the above, SFU HR will reimburse 85% of the guard.me fee paid to the maximum of the cost for two persons. The reimbursement will be processed at the end of the semester. You must notify HR that you are covered by guard.me in order for them to process the reimbursement. This is a separate process from the cancellation of your Guard.me@SFU coverage. Please contact tssubens@sfu.ca for further questions.

Cost: $75 per month*

Enrolment: Need to apply

More Info: BC MSP website

What is the BC Medical Services Plan (MSP)?

Students staying in BC for 6 months or longer are required to enrol in the British Columbia Medical Services Plan under the Medicare Protection Act. There is a wait period of 2-3 months for new residents. In order to be covered during the wait period you may purchase a private medical insurance plan or please contact International Services for Students to learn about medical insurance options.

If you are a new international student at SFU, you will be automatically enrolled in guard.me@sfu plan for your first term while you wait for your BC MSP.

BC MSP provides primary medical coverage such as:

How and when can I apply for MSP?

To apply for BC MSP, complete the MSP Application online at this website.

You may also complete the MSP Application Enrolment form by mail and mail it directly to BC MSP.

If you are eligible, you can apply as soon as you arrive in BC. Please note there is a wait period of 2-3 months for new residents before your coverage begins. If you are a new international student at SFU, you will be automatically enrolled in guard.me@sfu plan for your first term while you wait for your BC MSP. 

If you are a returning student travelling back to BC, in order to be covered during the wait period you may purchase a private medical insurance plan. Please contact International Services for Students about temporary medical insurance options to cover the MSP waiting period. 

I have been living in BC for a while but never applied for BC MSP. What can I do?

If you are currently in BC, do apply for BC MSP right away. Primary medical insurance is legally required for all residents of British Columbia (including international students) and is provided through the BC Medical Services Plan (MSP). 

Effective January 1, 2020, the BC MSP premium has been eliminated; however, each study permit holder is required to pay International Student Health Fee of $75 per month.

I have never applied for BC MSP. My study permit is expiring soon. What can I do to ensure I have medical insurance while I wait?

If you are a full-time SFU student, you can purchase an interim coverage through guard.me while you wait for your study permit. The guard.me plan is available at $2.30 per person per day. Please visit their website.

Note that all British Columbia residents (including study permit holders) are required to enrol with the British Columbia Medical Services Plan (BC MSP), BC’s provincial primary medical insurance plan. Once you have received your new study permit, apply for MSP right away. Please visit the MSP website to apply.

I am already enrolled in BC MSP. I have recently received my new study permit. How can I update my MSP?

Once you have received your new study permit you can notify BC MSP by completing an online form and uploading a copy of your new study permit. Please visit the MSP website for more information.

How does BC MSP work?

Once enrolled, BC MSP will mail you a BC Services Card along with an invoice to pay. Payments may be made monthly or in advance. Payments are made directly to BC MSP, not through SFU.

When visiting a health clinic or hospital, you will be asked to show your BC Services Card as proof of enrolment. You will not be required to pay for the visit, they will bill BC MSP directly. 

Secondary medical insurance generally covers vision care, prescription drugs, dental and extended health care. Eligible SFU students receive secondary medical insurance through the SFSS/GSS Extended Health and Dental Plan.

Do you already have an equivalent secondary medical insurance plan? OPT OUT of the SFSS Health and Dental Plan.

Are you an international student living outside of Canada? Note that plan benefits are only accessible within Canada. Review your options and details below.

Cost:

Enrolment:

More Info: SFSS Health and Dental Plan website

What is the SFSS Health and Dental Plan?

The undergraduate Simon Fraser Student Society Health and Dental Plan is in place to complement primary medical coverage (ie. MSP). Services not covered by primary coverage (ie. vision and dental care) are included in the SFSS plan. 

Eligible students are automatically covered by and billed for applicable portions of the student plan (except if entering in summer term). Note that Plan benefits are only accessible within Canada.

How and when can I opt out of the SFSS Health and Dental Plan?

To complete your opt out (for the first time you opt out, or if you didn't opt out last year), you will need to provide proof that you are covered by an equivalent extended health and/or dental plan during the Change of-Coverage Period.  

Please visit their website for more information. 

How can I make claims?

You can claim online, through a mobile app or by mail.

Please allow up to two weeks for claims to be processed. 

For claim forms and more information, please visit the SFSS Health and Dental website. 

How can I enrol my dependents?

Your plan gives you the option to enrol your family (spouse and/or dependent children) by completing an enrolment process and by paying an additional fee, over and above your individual fee as a Plan member during the Change-of-Coverage Period. Common law couples are eligible.

The Change-of-Coverage Period is the period at the beginning of the semester when you can make changes to your plan, opt out, or enrol your spouse and/or dependent children in the Plan. 

Students who are eligible to enrol themselves and who wish to cover their spouse and/or dependent children have to pay the appropriate couple or family fee in addition to their own enrolment fee.

I would like to speak to a representative about my secondary medical insurance. Who should I contact?

You can reach a representative by calling the Care Centre at 236-427-8123, Mon. - Fri. from 9 am to 5 pm. Or you can visit Studentcare Care Office in-person which is located at the Student Union Building (SUB) 2301 on SFU Burnaby campus, Mon. - Fri. from 9 am to 5 pm.

Facebook
Twitter
YouTube

See Contact us


