I 

Explore different support options available for disabled and neurodivergent students, including a section for frequently asked questions (FAQs).

While any and all students are welcome through the doors of Health and Counselling, we recognize that some students registered with CAL may have disability-specific issues, or may feel more comfortable engaging in counselling with a counsellor with lived experience of disability.

Sean Heaslip is a registered clinical counsellor, and also happens to be partially blind, and is the CAL counsellor at Health and Counselling. Sean offers both individual and group counselling options, and can meet with you to discuss what options will best support your present needs.

Individual counselling is available through the CAL counsellor upon referral by your CAL advisor. Learn more about the referral process here.

There are a number of group counselling options for CAL registrants, facilitated by the CAL counsellor that are designed to provide a safe and supportive environment for students with a lived experience of disability to receive support.

3 groups are offered on a rotating basis:

See a doctor or nurse at Health & Counselling clinics if your health is being impacted, or if you are seeking a medical referral to a physician specialist.

Dolwnload my SSP to access 24/7 crisis support, or call or chat to schedule an appointment with a counsellor in the community (close to home). You can make an appointment requesting specific counsellor options, such as a counsellor with similar lived experience as you, and you can also chat with a counsellor for advice if you are supporting someone else in distress.

It's always advised to have the app on your phone for if and when you need it.

You can have your own General Practitioner, Psychologist, or Psychiatrist complete forms to get documentation for CAL.

If this option is available for you, this is the better option since your own General Practitioner, Psychologist, or Psychiatrist will know you better if they have been seeing you for a while.

If you are unable to book with your own General Practitioner, Psychologist, or Psychiatrist, you can book with a doctor at a Health & Counselling clinic.

The SFU Disability and Neurodiversity Alliance (DNA) is a student-led network of community members:

“We work together to create campus change, address ableism, and promote disability justice while opposing oppression in all forms. Accessibility is an important issue within our membership and we are committed to addressing this within the educational setting and beyond. As a constituency group under the Simon Fraser Student Society, we serve as the official voice for disabled and neurodivergent undergraduates."

Email sfudna@gmail.com for a link to the SFU DNA Discord.

See below for more advocacy-related support.

 Learn about accessible booking options here

Centre for Accessible Learning (CAL)

The Centre for Accessible Learning (CAL) is available to students with a documented or suspected disability, and students looking for volunteer opportunities, along with anyone with questions about equitable access to educational opportunities at SFU.

Learn more

What if I’m not registered with CAL or lack access to healthcare and documentation - what support can I access?

How can I get documentation?

What if I need accommodations but am not registered with CAL? (Example: I have ADHD or anxiety, but don’t have the documentation right now to register with CAL.)

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


