If you are in an emergency, in crisis or need someone to talk to, there is help.

In light of the recent Canada Post disruption, online giving is the quickest and most effective way to support CAMH Foundation. Thank you for your understanding and support.

Access CAMH

Centralized information, intake and scheduling. Access CAMH makes it easy to find support – simply call 416-535-8501, option 2. 

Referral Form

For mental health services, a referral form needs to be completed by a healthcare provider. For addictions services, patient can self-refer.

Visiting CAMH

Planning on visiting CAMH? Find contact information, directions and accessibility for each of our three main sites.

Visiting CAMH

Planning on visiting CAMH? Find contact information, directions and accessibility for each of our three main sites.

Planning on visiting CAMH? Find contact information, directions and accessibility for each of our three main sites.

Use this series of free online tutorials as the starting point to learn about and understand a wide range of mental health topics.

Accessible, reliable, professionally produced resources on an array of mental health topics for patients, families, students and professionals.

If you are in an emergency, in crisis or need someone to talk to, there is a list of resources available for areas in and around Toronto.

The CAMH Store offers a wide array of mental illness and addiction resources for patients, families, students and professionals. Search or browse our catalogue of brochures and booklets, textbooks, manuals and assessment tools.

Open to professionals and the general public, our comprehensive resources and services support and enhance CAMH's research and clinical programs, and they facilitate learning, dynamic knowledge exchange and health promotion initiatives.

Fuelling the next generation of groundbreaking research and innovation dedicated to finding the causes of and cures for mental illness.

Participate in Research - FAQs

Answers to frequent questions about joining a CAMH study, including how to sign up, what's involved, and how we protect your rights and confidentiality.

Each year CAMH provides opportunities to the next generation of scientists: today’s undergraduate students, graduate students and postdoctoral researchers. Train in a unique learning environment and help contribute to the breakthrough mental health research and treatments of tomorrow

Find the Course That's Right for You

Browse our entire selection of certificate programs, webinars and workshops.

Clinical & Research Opportunities for Professionals in Training

Study in a world-class setting to become a leader in the field of mental health.

Make a one-time donation

With your support, CAMH researchers are revolutionizing the ways we diagnose, treat, and prevent mental illness. Donate today.

Real stories of courage, hope and discovery. Made possible through your continued support of CAMH.

Careers at CAMH

By working at CAMH, you can help people affected by mental illness and support their recovery.  Join the team. Everyone who works at CAMH becomes an advocate for mental health. 

The Crisis is Real

We are in the grips of a crisis that ruins health, threatens lives and hurts economies. Knowing the facts is the first step in creating hope.

Mental Health Statistics

The latest facts and statistics on mental illness and addiction, who's affected and their impact on Canadians. 

Challenging the stigma associated with mental illness takes understanding, education and a closer look at our own attitudes toward health.

The Mental Health Facility of the Future

Turning what was once a walled institution into a symbol of hope for the future of mental health care.

Vision & Guiding Principles

How do you replace an institution with an urban village? Lots of planning, imagination and a long-term commitment to serving patients, staff and the community.

History of Queen Street Site

Our history—evolving from an asylum into a modern health facility with patients at the centre of care—is the history of mental health care in Canada.

CAMH advocates for policies that are responsive to the needs of people with mental illness and addictions.

CAMH believes in the principle of equity. We respect the diversity of the individuals and communities we serve.



​Fentanyl is a powerful pain medication. It is an opioid, like morphine, codeine, oxycodone (oxys) and methadone.

​Fentanyl

Apache, China girl, China town, China white, murder 8, jackpot, poison, TNT, tango and cash


    Fentanyl is a powerful pain medication. It is an opioid, like morphine, codeine, oxycodone (oxys) and methadone. Fentanyl is most often prescribed as a slow-release patch to people with long-term, severe pain. When used in this way, it can be very effective and safe.



    Fentanyl is much stronger than most other opioids—up to 100 times stronger than morphine—and is very dangerous if misused. Even a small amount can cause an overdose and death.



    Street fentanyl can come from two sources:



Most street fentanyl in Canada is produced illegally as a powder. Street fentanyl may be swallowed, smoked, snorted or injected. Fentanyl is released from prescription patches by smoking or chewing.



Fentanyl is sold as a powder or a pill, or is cut into (mixed with) drugs such as heroin or cocaine. This type of fentanyl is usually sold as another substance, so people swallow, snort or inject it without realizing. Many overdoses have occurred because people did not know that what they were taking was contaminated with fentanyl.



If you or someone you know uses opioids, it is a good idea to have a free naloxone kit  .  Naloxone is a medication that can temporarily reverse the effects of an opioid overdose and allow time for medical help to arrive.



When they're used properly to treat pain, opioids reduce pain and the emotional response to pain. However, when they are misused, they may produce:



When someone overdoses on fentanyl, they first become sleepy, and it is hard to wake them. Their breathing becomes slow and shallow. They may snore, and they may pass out.


The person’s body may become limp, their face pale or clammy, and their pulse weak or slow. For lighter-skinned people, the lips and finger tips may turn blue or purple. For darker-skinned people, the inside of the lips may become blue or purple.



If someone is overdosing, call 911 right away! While you are waiting for medical help to arrive, you can use your naloxone kit to temporarily reverse the effects of the overdose.



The Good Samaritan Drug Overdose Act protects you from being charged or convicted for drug possession if you call 911 to report an overdose, or if you are at the scene when emergency services arrive. This is true even if you are on probation for possession.



Fentanyl is dangerous for many reasons:


 


Sources:
Do You Know. . . Prescription Opioids © 2012 Centre for Addiction and Mental Health
Straight Talk: Street Fentanyl © 2017 Centre for Addiction and Mental Health
About opioids © 2017 Government of Canada
Opioid crisis in Canada © 2018 Government of Canada
What is fentanyl? © 2017 Royal Canadian Mounted Police



Treatment at CAMH: Access CAMH
Help for families from CAMH 
ConnexOntario  

    Kids Help Phone at 1 800 668-6868
    
The Works Toronto  , for harm reduction support and supplies.



A free tutorial on addictions is available on the Mental Health 101 page.

Addiction: An Information Guide
    (PDF)
Straight talk: Street Fentanyl
    (PDF)



Back to top



Until December 2, all donations will be matched to help create a future where Canadians can get the help they need, when they need it—no matter who or where they are.

CAMH Switchboard

From the GTA: 416 535-8501


Toll-free: 1 800 463-2338

To Access CAMH Clinical Services

416 535-8501, press 2

We have multiple locations. Find directions.

Copyright 2025 CAMH

Keep your finger on our pulse – latest CAMH news, discoveries and ways to get involved delivered to your inbox.

Please select a newsletter

Please complete the following:

Required Fields

Please select a newsletter option

Please input a first name

Please input a last name

Please input an email address

By clicking Sign Up below, I consent to receive electronic communications (as selected above) from CAMH and CAMH Foundation. To unsubscribe at any time click the link in our mailing or email: unsubscribe@camh.ca

Please agree to the Terms of Use

 

We look forward to keeping you informed, inspired and involved in all things CAMH.

Every donation moves us closer to a future where no one is left behind.

