Benzodiazepines are a class of  substances often used as sedatives and tranquilizers. Although they are some of  the most commonly prescribed medications, there is still a risk of overdose and  substance use disorder associated with them.

Benzodiazepines are drugs that  slow brain activity. This produces a drowsy or calming effect that can be  helpful in treating people with:

Benzodiazepines are only legally  available by prescription. They come in liquid, tablet or capsule form but are  usually given in pill form, for example as:

Benzodiazepine use can become  problematic, which can lead to substance use disorder, overdose and even death.  For this reason, benzodiazepines are controlled under Schedule IV of the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act.  Activities such as sale, possession and production of benzodiazepines are illegal,  unless authorized for medical, scientific or industrial purposes. 

The most common short-term side  effects of benzodiazepines can include:

Some people can also experience:

The long-term effects of  benzodiazepines can include:

If you're prescribed  benzodiazepines, talk to your health care provider to make a plan to help  reduce your risk of negative side effects. Using  benzodiazepines longer than prescribed increases the risk of developing a  substance use disorder and dependence from benzodiazepine use.                   

Developing tolerance means  that, over time, you need more of the drug to get the same effect.
  If you  stop taking benzodiazepines for a few days and then start again at the same  dose, you may increase your chances of an overdose. This is because you lose  the tolerance you have built up, after you stop taking it, even if just for a  few days.
Mixing benzodiazepines  with other depressants such as alcohol and/or opioids can be dangerous.  Combining these substances increases the risk of overdose, because they all  have sedative properties.

It  is still critical to give naloxone, since it temporarily reverses the  effects of opioids and can restore breathing, even if you remain unconscious.

While naloxone is not  effective in counteracting the effects of benzodiazepines, it is effective against  opioid overdoses and it can be safely administered to people who have taken  both opioid and non-opioid drugs.
  Since benzodiazepines have a sedating effect, if you overdose on a combination  of benzodiazepines and opioids, you may remain unconscious for up to several  hours even after receiving naloxone. 
  In  all cases of suspected overdose, call 911 for emergency help. Give naloxone if you have it. Remain with the person until  emergency help arrives.  

Staying  at the scene of an overdose is important to help save the life of the person  experiencing an overdose. The Good Samaritan Drug Overdose Act gives some  legal protection for individuals who witness an overdose and call 911 or their  local emergency number for help. 

Taking benzodiazepines with or without  a prescription can lead to physical dependence. When you suddenly stop taking  them, or take a much lower dose than usual, withdrawal symptoms may appear.
  Symptoms of benzodiazepine  withdrawal include:

Less common symptoms include:

