F T I

The SFU community is committed to the fair and just treatment of each and every member of the University. 

The Ombudsperson at SFU is an independent, impartial and confidential resource for students. We provide information and guidance on students' rights and responsibilities, and University regulations, policies and procedures. The Ombudsperson may also make recommendations to the University, where appropriate, for changes to policies and procedures and to promote discussion on institution-wide concerns that impact students. The Ombudsperson is an advocate for fairness in general for the benefit of all students and the university community as a whole. 

The Ombudsperson does not advocate or represent students directly, but acts as a confidential and impartial resource to learn self-advocacy skills. The Ombudsperson is available to help students become their own advocates by providing them with information or advice about regulations, policies and procedures and strategies to use constructive ways to raise issues.

SFU was the first university in North America to establish an Ombuds Office in 1965.

Confidential

All information provided to us is kept confidential, unless we have explicit permission for names and/or details to be released and it is considered appropriate to do so. 

Independent

The Office operates with a high degree of independence within the University, and is seperate from all academic structures and student government. 

Impartial

We consider all of the information we receive and collect with the highest degree of objectivity. The Office is committed to the highest principles or administrative fairness. Our goal is to ensure that everyone involved believes their perspectives have been understood and considered fairly.

The Office does have the right to refuse or discontinue work on any case which the Ombudsperson is of the opinion is not worthy of investigation where such complaint is frivolous, vexatious, not brought in good faith, or is an abuse of the Ombudsperson’s functions.

The Office is jointly funded by the GSS, SFSS and SFU but operates independently. The operation of the Office and the duties of the Ombudsperson are governed by the Terms of Reference posted on this site. For more details on the principles of Ombuds practice and ethical standards please see the section on professional standards. 

The Office of the Ombudsperson is jointly funded by the SFSS, GSS, and SFU

The Office is located in MBC Room 2266

8888 University DriveBurnaby, B.C.Canada V5A 1S6 

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

