F I

Contact the SVSPO: 778.782.7233 | sv-support@sfu.ca

Launched in January 2016, the Consent Matters campaign (#ConsentMattersSFU) is an annual campaign hosted by the Sexual Violence Support & Prevention Office (SVSPO). The primary goal of the Consent Matters campaign is to foster a culture of consent, care, and respect at SFU and FIC by:

For this year’s annual #ConsentMattersSFU 2025 campaign which happened in September, the SVSPO in collaboration with SFU Disability and Neurodivergent Alliance (DNA)* hosted an online conversation, Creating Consent Cultures Together: A Conversation on Neurodiversity. This online event explored how to build consent cultures that affirm neurodivergent experiences and uphold everyone’s autonomy.

Together, we reflected on how traditional consent frameworks often center neurotypical ways of communicating, and how we can shift toward more inclusive, flexible approaches that foster equity, safety, and care.

Guest speakers: Nia Pazoki, PhD candidate in Educational Psychology at Simon Fraser University; Jessica Buuck, undergrad Psychology major with a minor in Counselling and Human Development at SFU; and Paola Quiros-Cruz, SVSPO Educator. Moderator: V/Veronique West, Accessibility Assistant at SFU Disability & Neurodiversity Alliance. 

*DNA is a student-led network of community members who identify as disabled, autistic, neurodivergent, Deaf, mad and/or as having a disability, chronic illness, long-term condition, or mental illness. They work together to create campus change, address ableism, and promote disability justice while opposing oppression in all forms. Accessibility is an important issue within their membership and DNA is committed to addressing this within the educational setting and beyond. As a constituency group under the Simon Fraser Student Society, they serve as the official voice for disabled and neurodivergent undergraduates.

West Mall Centre (WMC) 1301
8888 University Drive
Burnaby, B.C.
Canada V5A 1S6

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


