SFU350

We are a student-led club working to engage the SFU community in climate action.

join Sfu350

SFU350 is a student-led club that organizes for climate justice on the unceded, traditional, and ancestral Coast Salish territories of the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh (Squamish), səl̓ilwətaɁɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), Katzie, and kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem) Nations. We mobilize for systemic change in solidarity with intersecting movements by organizing events and actions to raise awareness, educate, and empower the SFU community to take action on climate issues. 

Demand SFU Take Action For Our Safety: The Trans Mountain Pipeline Expansion (TMX) is a dangerous project with devastating environmental and social impacts. Situated dangerously close to Burnaby Mountain, the expansion project threatens the safety of thousands of daily commuters, residents, and wildlife. This campaign calls on SFU to officiate their oppositional stance to the Trans Mountain Pipeline Expansion (TMX) project by responding to calls to action that prioritize the safety of the SFU community and in alignment with SFU’s climate emergency declaration.

DivestSFU (2013-2021)

This campaign involved lobbying SFU to divest its endowment fund from fossil fuels and invest in renewable energy and low-carbon solutions. It became one of seven demands laid out in our Climate Emergency Declaration letter the SFU. In November 2021, SFU announced its commitment to complete divestment from fossil fuels by 2025!  





Climate Emergency Declaration (2021-Present)

This campaign launched in September 2021 with an open letter to  SFU demanding it declare a climate emergency and commit to seven ambitious and equitable climate action demands. To date, SFU has declared a global climate emergency and committed to full divestment. Currently, SFU350 is working to ensure the rest of the demands are met. 

As a member of SFU350, you will have the opportunity to learn a range of skills relevant to climate organizing and education, be in community of organizers at and beyond SFU, and form meaningful relationships.  You will also have a say in the direction and strategy of the club.

If you are interested in joining SFU350, simply fill out this recruitment form or click here



About this event: SFU350 and Contract Worker Justice @SFU (CWJ) will be hosting a virtual Livestream Watch-Party during the SFU Board of Governors (BoG) meeting on January 27th. In this meeting, the BoG will respond to SFU350 previous motion concerning the demands in our Climate Emergency Declaration (CED) Open Letter, and the CWJ will present their findings in their preliminary report, Labour Conditions among Contract Cleaning and Food Service Staff at Simon Fraser University.

SFU350 will be hosting a Livestream Watch-Party during the SFU Board of Governors meeting on September 28, where we will be presenting the demands laid out in our SFU Climate Emergency Declaration Open Letter. This online event concludes SFU350’s Climate Emergency Declaration campaign series and thus marks the end of our campaign.

On March 10th, Justice, No Pipeline will host an information session about the Trans Mountain Pipeline expansion. Because this is an intersectional issue, we will have speakers present on both Indigenous sovereignty and the safety risks posed by the expansion. All are welcome, though we especially encourage members of the Burnaby Mountain community and SFU students/faculty to attend.

Join the national student walkout with 30+ universities across the nation at Simon Fraser University, on Wednesday March 4th 2020 at 2:30PM. We will be meeting in the convocation mall for a rally, featuring indigenous youth activist guest speakers until 5:00PM.

As a contribution to the larger climate emergency engagement process taking place at SFU, the Climate Coalition is organizing a session that is specifically for students as we want to make sure there is space for our voices to be heard, our ideas to be shared, and connections to be made through this pressing crisis that affects us all! Before a climate emergency is declared, we want to ensure that all students have the opportunity to share their perspective, which is why, through this event, we want to create a safe space for any SFU student – regardless of their involvement in climate action – to share their thoughts, concerns, and proposals for how SFU can proceed as a leader in the fight against climate change.

We are inviting youth from across Metro-Vancouver to join us on January 29th for a 2020 launch party, alongside over 2000 other groups of young people demanding that the Green New Deal be a main focus for the upcoming year. This year is crucial in the fight for climate justice, and it is up to us, the young people, to fight to make sure that we are electing politicians who will take the necessary action to help this fight. We need action, we need change, and we need it NOW.

Join the walkout in solidarity with the Wet'suwet'en First Nation (https://www.facebook.com/WetsuwetenFirstNation/). We are walking out of class on Monday, January 27th @ 10 am and rallying at Convocation Mall before we head to Vancouver City Hall to join the bigger rally with other Metro Vancouver students.Bigger Event: https://www.facebook.com/events/162348728407436/

We are inviting post-secondary students to come together and plan how we can mobilize the Metro Vancouver student body in the fight for climate justice. Climate justice is a term used for framing global warming as an ethical, social and political issue, rather than one that is purely environmental or physical in nature.

​We respectfully acknowledge that we are working on the unceded territory of the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh (Squamish), səl̓ilwətaɁɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), Katzie, and kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem) Nations. Unceded means that this land was never surrendered, relinquished or handed over in any way. We continue to be on occupied lands and therefore, we acknowledge that we, as people living and working on these lands, must always centre our movement around Indigenous rights and sovereignty.

