Our office hours are 9 am to 4 pm,
Monday to Friday

Centre for Accessible Learning (CAL)
1250 Maggie Benston Centre
Simon Fraser University
Burnaby BC V5A 1S6
Email: caladmin@sfu.ca
Phone: 778.782.3112
Secure Fax: 778.782.4384

Visit our Accessibility Information Page to find detailed information about our office and its accessibility considerations.


A Psycho-Educational Assessment (hereinafter, Assessment), alternatively referred to as a Learning Disability Assessment, can provide vital information towards determining a student’s entitlement to consideration of academic accommodations. Students who experience functional academic barriers may benefit from an Assessment to help identify and understand their strengths and weaknesses in their learning profile.

For the provincial and federal financial aid programs listed below, the government defines a permanent disability as "a functional limitation caused by a physical or mental impairment that restricts the ability of a person to perform the daily activities necessary to participate in studies at a post-secondary level or in the labour force and that is expected to remain for the person's expected natural life."

Please note: If you are a student attending Simon Fraser University (SFU) but are receiving financial aid from another province (outside of British Columbia), please contact StudentAid BC to determine your eligibility for the Learning Disability Assessment Bursary.

Disclaimer: The Centre for Accessible Learning (CAL) has compiled information on relevant funding options for students seeking coverage for Assessment costs. Please follow the relevant hyperlinks contained on this page to obtain the most accurate and up-to-date information about each of the following funding options.

The LDAB is a provincial financial needs-based bursary intended to provide funding to students to be used solely for covering the costs attributed to obtaining a current Learning Disability (Psycho-Educational) Assessment. The LDAB provides recommended students with a one-time bursary (up to $1,800 CAD) to be used towards the up-front cost of an Assessment. 

In order to be eligible for the LDAB, SFU applicants must:


Be a full or part-time student at SFU, enrolled in a post-secondary program;




Demonstrate financial need through the Student Financial Assistance (student loans) application process;




Not be in default of a BC Student Loan;




Not have already qualified as a student with a disability with StudentAid BC (SABC); and




Have met screening requirements and have been recommended by CAL to obtain an Assessment



If CAL has recommended that a student obtain an Assessment, students may then apply for an LDAB to cover the up-front cost of their Assessment. CAL determines appropriate candidates for the Learning Disability Screen’s completion, and administers this screen accordingly. A student can receive an LDAB only where CAL identifies that an Assessment is appropriate and necessary. 

For more information on the LDAB, please visit StudentAid BC’s LDAB webpage.

The CSG-PDSE is a federal financial aid program that helps part-time or full-time students with permanent disabilities pay for exceptional education-related costs for services and equipment. To be eligible for the Learning Disability Assessment Reimbursement under the CSG-PDSE, an Assessment must result in a diagnosis of a learning disability. If the Assessment indicates that a student has a learning disability, they can be reimbursed for up to 75% of the cost of this Assessment (maximum of $1,700 CAD).

You may be eligible for the CSG-PDSE if you:



qualify for a federal student loan (i.e., demonstrate financial need);




are enrolled in full-time or part-time studies at SFU;




have a permanent disability as defined by the Canada Student Loan Program; and,




have exceptional education-related costs for services or equipment due to your permanent disability.



In order to confirm your eligibility and apply for a Learning Disability Assessment Reimbursement under the CSG-PDSE, please contact our office by email caladmin@sfu.ca or phone 778.782.3112. 

For more information on the CSG-PDSE, please visit StudentAid BC’s CSG-PDSE webpage.

The APSD is a federal financial aid program intended to help students cover expenses associated with exceptional education-related services and equipment. An APSD grant can only be issued to students with permanent disabilities who have exhausted all funding available through the CSG-PDSE within the program year.

In order to confirm your eligibility and apply for a Learning Disability Assessment Reimbursement under the APSD, please contact our office by email caladmin@sfu.ca or phone 778.782.3112.

For more information on the APSD, please visit StudentAid BC’s APSD webpage.

To financially support students who obtain Assessments, the Simon Fraser Student Society (SFSS) has initiated a pilot-program to help assist undergraduate students whose Assessment costs extend beyond the coverage available under the student health plan’s psychology benefit. SFSS coverage for Assessments is allocated on a case-by-case basis, and students may be reimbursed for 80% of costs (to a maximum of $3,000 CAD) incurred per policy year when public funding is otherwise unavailable.

For detailed information on how to claim an Assessment under this program, please visit Student Care’s Coverage for Psycho-Educational Assessments’ webpage.

The Graduate Student Society plan covers up to 80% of the cost of a mental health practitioner. The practitioner must be a licensed psychologist, a registered clinical counsellor, or have a Master’s degree in Social Work. The maximum is $600 per policy year (combined for all practitioners). 

Please note: The Centre for Accessible Learning does not refer individual students to specific assessors/clinics/practices that conduct Assessments. The following information is not a recommendation, referral nor advice and should be used solely for general informational purposes.

Students can visit British Columbia Psychological Association’s website to find registered psychologists that conduct Assessments.

Hours: 9 am to 4 pm, Monday to Friday
 Centre for Accessible Learning (CAL)
1250 Maggie Benston Centre
Simon Fraser University
Burnaby BC V5A 1S6

Email: caladmin@sfu.ca
Phone: 778.782.3112
Secure Fax: 778.782.4384

