
    Interested in Happify's business solutions for your organization?
  

How you feel matters! Whether you're feeling sad, anxious, or stressed, Happify brings you effective tools and programs to help you take control of your feelings and thoughts.

Our proven techniques are developed by leading scientists and experts who've been studying evidence-based interventions in the fields of positive psychology, mindfulness, and cognitive behavioral therapy for decades.

Science now provides the tools you need to make the changes you want. It takes some work, but you’ll be surprised at how soon you’ll start feeling a positive change. Our easy, effective exercises give you no excuses for not participating!


          Our engaging activities and games can be used anytime, anywhere—on your smartphone, tablet or computer. Small slices of time can make big-time changes.
        


      These results come directly from people who are experiencing the same issues as you. Complete a few activities each week to start seeing meaningful improvement in your life satisfaction and your ability to fight back against negativity. Millions of Happify members have experienced this shift. So can you.
    


          "Stress? Bring it on! Happify gave me the tools I need to keep a handle on my work stress. I've learned to reframe my negative thoughts, focus on my core values, and be grateful for the small stuff!"
        


          Lori N.
        


          Bend, OR
        


          Happify has helped me develop new skills in a variety of domains such as preventing worry, cultivating my relationships, and setting better sleep habits. I've built up all these tools over time and they're with me in challenging circumstances and at times when I feel emotionally overwhelmed.
        


          Elaina S.
        


          St. Louis, MO
        


          The improvements in my life have been pretty extreme. My negativity bias was extremely powerful and Happify has made a HUGE difference in reframing my default when I'm under stress. Happify has also had a huge impact on how I do my job. With my staff, I'm more forgiving, and I feel the exercises have helped me maintain focus and get more done in a shorter amount of time.
        


          Tommy H.
        


          Berwyn, IL
        


          "The biggest thing I've learned is how to change my outlook, especially when it comes to stressful experiences. When I started, I was a total pessimist. Now I've learned how to look for and find the possibility of good in negative situations. It's been both empowering and calming."
        


          Angela W.
        


          Chattanooga, TN
        


          The skills that I have learned on Happify have helped me deal with challenges in a different way. I also feel more motivated and productive at my job—I no longer pile up my work, and I am thinking in a more positive way, which has increased my confidence and happiness about life.
        


          Vivian P.
        


          Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
        


          I've been using Happify for years and it really has transformed my life more than any other tool I've used to grow my positivity. Thank you for creating such an incredible, easy to use tool to help individuals take positive growth and behavior into their own hands…and in an app that we can carry around in our pockets everywhere we go, whenever we need it!
        


          Ashley S.
        


          Tampa, FL
        


      The most important findings from the latest research on positive psychology, CBT, and mindfulness. All in one place, for the first time.
    


              What is happiness—and what is it not? People have agonized over this question for centuries, but only recently has science begun to weigh in on the debate.
            


              Positive psychology is often referred to as the science of happiness, or the study of what makes humans flourish. Learn how it can change your life.
            


              What's the key to lasting happiness? A decade's worth of research has confirmed that you can practice certain skills that will increase your happiness in life.
            


              What is happiness—and what is it not? People have agonized over this question for centuries, but only recently has science begun to weigh in on the debate.
            


              Positive psychology is often referred to as the science of happiness, or the study of what makes humans flourish. Learn how it can change your life.
            


              What's the key to lasting happiness? A decade's worth of research has confirmed that you can practice certain skills that will increase your happiness in life.
            


    Interested in Happify's business solutions for your organization?
  

