F I

Contact the SVSPO: 778.782.7233 | sv-support@sfu.ca

These days, a lot of people use technology to connect with others—whether it’s to chat, make new friends, strengthen community, date, or flirt online. Using these platforms to hurt, embarrass, harass, take advantage of, or threaten someone is never okay, and may constitute an act of sexualized violence.

Tech-facilitated sexualized violence (TFSV) can affect anyone; however, women, Indigenous people, Black people, racialized communities, and 2SLGBTQI+ individuals are disproportionately impacted by digital harms more broadly, including, but not limited to, TFSV.

The social, physical, psychological, emotional, and academic impacts of TFSV can make people feel isolated, afraid, and silenced.

What is Tech-facilitated sexualized violence?

Signs of Tech-facilitated sexualized violence

SFU and community supports

Technology-facilitated sexualized violence (TFSV) is a specific type of sexualized violence that misuses technology to cause virtual and/or in-person harm. This can include, but is not limited to, misusing social media, virtual messaging platforms, webpages, dating apps and digital, phone, or web cameras to threaten, harass, bully, embarrass, assault, extort, coerce, torment, or socially exclude another person.

To learn more about other tech-facilitated sexualized violence (TFSV) terms, please refer to this list created by BCcampus.

Tech-facilitated abuse can show up in different ways, especially in online relationships and communication. Here are some red flags to watch for:

If you notice any of these behaviors, or if you have questions about whether what you are experiencing is TFSV, consider reaching out to a trusted support person or one of the support services listed below. It's okay to ask for help or talk to someone you trust.

Sexual Violence Support & Prevention Office (SVSPO)

Connect with us to chat with one of our Case Managers to receive guidance and support. Our case managers are available Monday-Friday, 9am-4:30pm (excluding statutory holidays). Appointments may be held outside of these hours, upon request.

Keep yourself digitally safe

SFU IT services has created a page with online safety tips on how to keep our devices updated, use strong passwords with MFA, and watch out for phishing emails. 

Intimate Images Protection Service

The Government of British Columbia passed the Intimate Images Protection Act and established the Intimate Images Protection Service in 2023. The Intimate Images Protection Service is a confidential service that supports people in B.C. who have had their intimate images shared without their consent. They have specialists who can take you through each step of how best to respond to threats of your images being released, as well as how to address this in the event an image is released without your consent.

Contact information:

Compass Tool

Compass is an online guide offered by the BC Society of Transition Houses that explains options and support for both threats and release of intimate images. If you’d like, you can ask a friend or trusted person to go through the tool with you as a support.


Reclaim Your Digital Space

A free e-learning course designed by the Canadian Women’s Foundation for people facing digital harm, organizations, and all people who want to:

Tech Safety Canada

A funded toolkit providing additional information about tech-facilitated violence laws and resources for victims and survivors of TFSV.

Everyone deserves to feel safe and respected—online and offline. If you're ever unsure whether something you're experiencing is TFSV, don’t hesitate to reach out—we’re here to listen and support you.

West Mall Centre (WMC) 1301
8888 University Drive
Burnaby, B.C.
Canada V5A 1S6

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


