I 

Dialectical Behaviour Therapy (DBT) teaches evidence-based techniques to improve emotional regulation, interpersonal effectiveness, distress tolerance, and mindfulness.

The Dialectical Behavior Therapy (DBT) group is designed to provide a supportive environment where you can learn practical skills to effectively navigate life's challenges. It offers tools for managing intense emotions, coping with stress, and building healthier relationships—key areas that are often affected during this demanding phase of life.

Rooted in mindfulness, the DBT group emphasizes a balance between acceptance and change. It provides a structured environment where you can learn to address the intense emotions that may arise from academic pressures, personal relationships, and the transition to greater independence.

The group setting fosters connection, mutual understanding, and encouragement as you work together toward personal growth and improved well-being. It emphasizes self-awareness, emotional regulation, and strategies for handling distress, all while fostering resilience.

To register, please email Omeed at omeed_lakhani48@sfu.ca. Omeed will then set up a 30-minute pre-group screening meeting.

February 24 to April 7

Tuesdays | 1:30 - 3:30 PM

Location: Burnaby campus in or near Maggie Benston Centre. Room to be confirmed upon registration.

Mental Health Nurse

Racheal is a Registered Mental Health Nurse. She completed her Master’s Degree at Brandon University in Advanced Clinical Practice. Racheal has worked in the mental health field since 2010. Her approach in her interactions derives from a humanistic response, such as the practice of empathy and respect. She commits herself to the importance of assuming awareness of social positions, such as culture and lived experiences in order to focus solely on the stories told by each student.

Counselling Practicum Student

Omeed is a trainee counsellor completing his Master's Degree in Counselling. Having spent ten years as a teacher before pivoting to counselling, he holds a deep belief in people's capacity to grow and change at any stage of life. He uses his teaching experience to break down complex concepts into clear, manageable steps, ensuring the path to emotional regulation as a journey of discovery.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


