Get 50% off: Best deal of the year ->

50% off a year of Headspace

Our best price for a happier year, limited time only.

Stress less

Sleep soundly

Manage anxiety

Process thoughts

Practice meditation

Start therapy

From guided meditations to one-on-one coaching, our team of clinical experts and trained coaches work together to bring you science-backed care.

Support your team today with mindfulness, coaching, EAP, therapy, and psychiatry.

Featured

Popular

Sleep

Stress

Meditation and Mindfulness

Get personalized content recommendations with Ebb

Help kids settle in and drift off

Bring your attention to all interactions with your children

Stress-relieving tools for election season 

A playground for your mind

Stay present and in control in high-pressure situations

Bring your best, most confident self to work

0.0k

meditating

App Store Rating

0M+

Downloads

0M+

Minutes Meditated

Selected Awards

Headspace is your lifelong guide to better mental health. Through evidence-based meditation and mindfulness tools, sleep resources, mental health coaching, and more, Headspace helps you create life-changing habits to support your mental health and find a healthier, happier you.

Headspace was founded in 2010 with the mission to revolutionize mental health for humanity and to guide you to more joy, less stress, and the best sleep of your life. A better day at work, home, and all the moments in between — Headspace makes it easy for you to love your mind.

The Headspace app is currently available on Apple (iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch) and Android (smartphone and tablet) devices. Sign up for a Headspace account, and then you'll be directed to download the app to get started.

Once you've subscribed, your subscription will include: 

You can also add mental health coaching to your plan.

If you need help choosing a plan or subscribing, please visit our FAQs.

You can check out all of our different subscription plans, which include our Annual and Monthly plans. We also have student and family plans, as well as a gift option.

Yes, your annual or monthly subscription will auto-renew. Unless canceled, monthly subscriptions automatically renew each month and annual subscriptions automatically renew each year on the day you subscribed. Your subscription can be canceled at any time.

If you need help canceling your subscription, you can learn more here.

Request a demo to learn more about how we help you support your team. Headspace is here to provide mindfulness, coaching, EAP, therapy, psychiatry, and more to 4,000+ organizations worldwide.

Stay in the loop

Be the first to get updates on our latest content, special offers, and new features.

By signing up, you’re agreeing to receive marketing emails from Headspace.
You can unsubscribe at any time. For more details, check out our Privacy Policy.

