I 

Learn how to set and maintain boundaries in both personal and professional settings.

Join us for an interactive two-part workshop designed to help you navigate and establish healthy boundaries in all areas of your life. In Part 1, we'll explore the foundations of healthy boundaries and why they are essential for self-care, communication, and well-being. In Part 2, you'll learn practical skills for asserting your boundaries, including how to say “No” with confidence and how to handle boundary challenges with compassion and clarity. 

This workshop is perfect for anyone looking to strengthen their ability to set and maintain boundaries in both personal and professional relationships.

Spaces are limited – register today to reserve your spot! Participants can attend both workshops or sign up for an individual workshop.

Register by emailing: shereenk@sfu.ca

October 28 and November 4

Tuesdays | 1:30 -  3:00 PM | Zoom

*The Zoom link will be provided upon registration.

Registered Clinical Counsellor (SVSPO)
shereen_khan@sfu.ca
language Additional languages spoken: Urdu, Hindi, and beginner Punjabi and Arabic

Shereen is a Registered Clinical Counsellor with lived experiences as an immigrant, as an expat, and as an international student at various stages in her life and in many countries around the globe. Her approach to therapy is best described as caring, compassionate, and nonjudgmental. She works from a phenomenological approach to human life that support understanding the client’s worldview. She is drawn to multicultural, anti-oppressive and trauma-informed practices as she acknowledges that human beings are wired for connection. She utilizes strengths based, solution-focused therapy model to help clients to courageously achieve wellness. She works with evidence approaches such as CBT, DBT, and EMDR. Shereen has practiced counselling internationally, as a consultant and counsellor in the university, medical and private settings. She is a firm believer in the potential of all individuals to grow, become satisfied, and live fulfilling lives.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


