F T I

Simon Fraser University’s Faculty of Environment, in a first of its kind partnership with the Multifaith Centre, have launched an Ecological Chaplaincy Pilot Project to explore the provision of pastoral and spiritual care to members of the SFU community experiencing anxiety and grief related to the climate and extinction crises.

Read more

Jason M. Brown is a continuing lecturer in the Department of Global Humanities and teaches for the Faculty of Environment as needed. Born and raised in California, he studied anthropology as an undergraduate at Brigham Young University. His master's work is in forestry and theology from Yale and he completed his PhD in 2017 from the Institute for Resources, Environment and Sustainability (IRES) at the University of British Columbia.

Contact: jason_brown_3@sfu.ca

Sign up for our mailing list

The Climate Resilience Peer Mentorship program is a new initiative in 2025 for students who want to help mentor peers struggling with climate and ecological distress. Contact Jason Brown if you are interested in becoming a mentor.

This opportunity is recognized on the Co-Curricular Record (CCR), an official university document that tracks your co-curricular involvement at SFU. Learn more about the Co-Curricular Record.

November 2024 Message: Honouring our grief as a community

Living the Questions: Bringing Ecological Chaplaincy to the Multifaith Centre

February 2024 Message from Ecological Chaplain

January 2024 Message from Ecological Chaplain

If you can see this, your browser does not support IFRAME. Please use supported browser

8888 University DriveBurnaby, B.C.Canada V5A 1S6 

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


