







About this Benefit 
         What My Benefit Covers 
         How Do I Access Coverage? 
         What My Benefit Does Not Cover 
         AppealsCompliments and Complaints



Counselling is a tool for individuals experiencing a difficult situation to resolve their emotional distress and enjoy greater wellness. Health Benefits has partnered with Pacific Blue Cross (PBC) to administer the Mental Wellness and Counselling (MWC) Benefit to First Nations in BC.

For more information about the updates to the Mental Wellness and Counselling program, please see a Client frequently asked questions resource here. A frequently asked questions resource for Providers is also available here​.​​​



Your benefit covers counselling services from a qualified mental health provider. Mental health providers include psychologists, clinical counsellors and social workers.



The mental health provider must be registered with Health Benefits. Options to find a registered mental health provider:

You can find detailed information about your mental health claims through your PBC Member P​rofile, which you can access online.

You must see a provider who is registered with the Health Benefits Program to receive coverage for your counselling services.​

If you need travel assistance to access counselling, please contact the Medical Transportation Program (email: Transportation@fnha.ca ; phone: 1-855-550-5454). 

Note: Medical Transportation coverage may be available for trips that meet Medical Transportation criteria. Learn more about your Medical Transportation benefits here.​

If you prefer virtual appointments, talk to your provider about Telehealth options. See the Telehealth ​page or the Telehealth for Mental Health poster.

1. Tell your provider that you have coverage through the Health Benefits Program when scheduling your first app​ointment. 

2. Your first appointment is about determining if the provider is the right fit for you. You can change to another registered provider at any time.

3. Cancel your appointment ahead of time if you can no longer make it. Health Benefits does not pay for missed appointments and your provider may charge you for the cost of your appointment if you do not show up.

If you have any questions about your mental health benefit, how to access coverage, how to find a mental health provider or why a claim was denied, call Health Benefits at 1-855-550-5454.

Some services are considered Exclusions. Exclusions cannot be covered as an exception and cannot be appealed. Some examples of common mental health Exclusions are: 

You can call Health Benefits at 1-855-550-5454 to learn more about what is covered. 

When coverage for a mental health service has been denied, you have the right to appeal the decision. Items and services that are Exclusions cannot be appealed. See the Appeal​s page for more information about the appeals process.​

Mental Health providers like all other regulated health professionals in BC, are required to practice with cultural safety and humility. If you have feedback on your experience or interaction when receiving care, you can contact FNHA's Quality Care and Safety Office​.​

​We want to hear about your experience with FNHA Health Benefits,​ complete our client satisfaction survey.

