F I

Contact the SVSPO: 778.782.7233 | sv-support@sfu.ca

Sexual Assault Awareness Month (SAAM) is a month-long series of engagement opportunities hosted by the Sexual Violence Support & Prevention Office (SVSPO) in collaboration with SFU and FIC partners every January. The purpose of SAAM is to raise awareness about sexualized violence and to empower SFU and FIC students, faculty, staff, and administrators to engage with this complex topic in meaningful ways.

Too often, systems designed to support survivors of sexualized violence operate under the assumption that healing is a personal responsibility--one that follows a singular, linear path. This mindset was be challenged and transformed. Healing is not solely an individual journey; it is a collective process and shared responsibility. The impacts of interpersonal, systemic, and historical harm ripple through individuals, communities, and generations. 

Survivors have told us that healing can happen in many ways—like writing in a journal, painting, talking to a therapist, practicing meditation, connecting with cultural traditions, joining support groups, engaging in advocacy, or simply being believed. When communities and support systems commit to care, they become part of the healing. Survivors draw strength not only from their own resilience and self-expression, but also from the spaces that communities create to witness, support, and hold them with compassion. As Prentis Hemphill asks in What It Takes to Heal, "What would it do to movements, to our society and culture, to have the principles of healing at the very center? And that does it do to have healing at the center of every structure and everything we create?" (Hemphill, 44).

In recognition of SAAM 2026, we invite survivors to continue reclaiming their voices, bodies, narratives, and futures. And we invite everyone to reflect on this question: How can we hold space for healing--together?

Reference

Hemphill, P. (2024). What it takes to heal: How transforming ourselves can change the world. Random House. 

Learn more about becoming a SAAM Event Partner

We would ilke to recognize the members of the 2025 SAAM Advisory Committee for their time, energy, and support: Fereshteh Rashed (SFU Graduate Student Society), Jessica Jandu (SFSS Women's Centre), Jessica Truong (Fraser International College), Melissa Tamer (Beedie School of Business), Michelle Nalliah (Centre for Digital Media), Shanjarika Mvungi (Simon Fraser Student Society), and Tyler Schwartz (Sustainable Energy Engineering).

West Mall Centre (WMC) 1301
8888 University Drive
Burnaby, B.C.
Canada V5A 1S6

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


