I 

Tricia-Kay Williams is a Registered Clinical Counsellor available at no cost to Black SFU students who are looking for one-to-one counselling (using a brief model of counselling) from a Black counsellor.

You can connect with Tricia in two ways:

Rapid Access Appointments
Email hcscbs@sfu.ca or call the front desk at 778-782-4615 to book a Rapid Access Appointment. If you’d like to meet with Tricia for a shorter session before booking a full-hour appointment, MOAs can help set this up.

Direct Email Contact
You can email Tricia directly at triciaw@sfu.ca for an easy first point of contact. After your initial email, Tricia will follow up with you through Hushmail for continued communication.

All appointments with Tricia can take place in person, virtually, or by phone — whatever works best for you.

Registered Clinical Counsellor
language Additional languages spoken: Patois

Tricia-Kay Williams has a BA degree in Psychology from the York University in Toronto O.N. and an MA degree in Counselling Psychology at the Adler University in Vancouver B.C. Tricia has extensive experience counselling individuals and families and is skilled in treating: Trauma, Anxiety, Transitional/Career and Relational issues. She is also an active community and social services professional who worked for some years as a Residential Youth Worker. Tricia is an advocate for anti-racism that affects BIPOC individuals and consults with organizations to foster a more anti-racist approach.

My SSP is a service available 24/7 for SFU students, with options to book appointments with a Black counsellor or someone culturally relevant to you. 

Learn more

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


