
      Drug checking is a harm reduction service that allows people to determine what is in their substances and potentially take action to reduce the risk of any associated harms.
    

In collaboration with community partners, free, anonymous drug-checking services are available in Vancouver and other communities across Vancouver Coastal Health.

You can test your substances in multiple ways, either through on-site or take-home fentanyl test strips or by visiting a technician using an FTIR Spectrometer. You can access drug-checking services at all overdose prevention and supervised consumption sites and through Get Your Drugs Tested in Vancouver or by mail.

What's in my Drugs? video - Learn more about what happens when a person goes to a drug-checking service.

Mia, a drug technician with Vancouver Coastal Health, shows us how to use fentanyl test strips at home.

Mia, a drug technician with Vancouver Coastal Health, shows us how to use a benzo test strip correctly.




The FTIR spectrometer is a device that is able to provide you with more detailed drug checking information than a fentanyl test strip. FTIR Technicians provide drug checking services st:

Tuesday: 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.

A fentanyl test strip helps to identify whether or not there is fentanyl in your drug. These strips are also labelled with 'how to instructions" for people to refer to. Please note: there are limited quantities of strips available per visit.

Video instructions for using fentanyl test strips

Bella Coola Nuxalk Nation Health Centre 

 

 

Send and receive toxic drug and health alerts by text.

Toxic drug and health alerts is a free, real-time text messaging service for anyone to receive toxic drug alerts or share information about toxic drugs in their community. This service is anonymous.

People can get other information by text message, like where to find naloxone or how to get drugs tested.

Toxic drug and health alerts are currently available in Interior, Fraser, Northern, Vancouver, and Vancouver Coastal Health regions.

To sign up, text the word JOIN to 253787 (ALERTS).

See recent alerts on Towards the Heart.


      The VCH web team reviews website suggestions weekly for common themes. While we won't provide direct responses, your feedback is valuable.For non-website-related questions or feedback, please contact us. Health-related queries should be directed to your primary care provider or HealthLinkBC at 8-11.Protecting your privacy is a priority. Avoid including names or identifying details. Learn more on our Privacy and Terms of Use page.
    


        Thank you for pointing out what we can do better in the future.
      


      Vancouver Coastal Health is committed to delivering exceptional care to 1.25 million people, including the First Nations, Métis and Inuit, within the traditional territories of the Heiltsuk, Kitasoo-Xai’xais, Lil’wat, Musqueam, N’Quatqua, Nuxalk, Samahquam, shíshálh, Skatin, Squamish, Tla’amin, Tsleil-Waututh, Wuikinuxv, and Xa’xtsa.
    

Copyright © 2025 Vancouver Coastal Health

