I 

Garden therapy offers a unique and enjoyable way to manage stress. Through horticultural activities, participants can find comfort and support while connecting with nature.

Horticulture therapy involves the interaction with plants to aid in strengthening the body and mind. Although touching and feeling plants has been proven to boost moods and reduce stress, the full effects of horticulture therapy are best handled with the help of a professional therapist. You can pair the act of planting, maintaining, and harvesting with therapy concepts that cultivate personal growth and resiliency.

Learn to check soil temperature, water plants, fertilize, prune dried or dead leaves, provide protection from the elements and pests if necessary.

To register, email the facilitator, Tricia-Kay Williams, at triciaw@sfu.ca.

Students can also drop in at these sessions; prior gardening experience is not required. 

TBD

Location: Embark Learning Gardens, 643A Science Rd, Burnaby, BC

TBD

Tricia-Kay Williams has a BA degree in Psychology from the York University in Toronto O.N. and an MA degree in Counselling Psychology at the Adler University in Vancouver B.C. Tricia has extensive experience counselling individuals and families and is skilled in treating: Trauma, Anxiety, Transitional/Career and Relational issues. She is also an active community and social services professional who worked for some years as a Residential Youth Worker. Tricia is an advocate for anti-racism that affects BIPOC individuals and consults with organizations to foster a more anti-racist approach.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


