I 

A support group for graduate students working on their dissertations or theses, feeling stuck, overwhelmed, or isolated.

Join our Dissertation & Thesis Support Group designed for graduate students who are writing a thesis or dissertation and feeling distressed or discouraged. The group aims to help students reconnect with their creativity and motivation in a safe and confidential space. We'll focus on sharing experiences, offering and receiving support, goal setting, and anxiety/stress management.

The group is suitable for students at any stage of writing a dissertation or thesis, experiencing loneliness, frustration, anxiety, or challenges with a supervisor, and finding it difficult to balance life and academic writing. It requires willingness to engage in group activities and share at your own pace.

Potential benefits include becoming less self-critical and fearful of the judgment of others, clarifying your goals and values, gaining confidence in your decisions, developing the ability to tolerate and accept difficult emotions, and becoming better at asking for what you need and setting boundaries. All of this can lead to a new and improved relationship with your academic work.

To register, please email Shona at shona_adams@hcs1.sfu.ca.

September 25 to November 14

Thursdays | 2:00 - 3:30 PM | HCS offices, Burnaby campus*.

*The room location will be disclosed upon registration.

Registered Psychologist #2558

Shona is a Registered Psychologist who trained as a Clinical Psychologist in Oxford, U.K.. She is a dual citizen who immigrated to Canada when she was 10 years old, previously living in South Africa, Thailand and Malaysia. She predominantly uses a Human Givens and a CBT approach and is a specialist in treating traumas and complex mental health disorders. She uses a strength-based solution-focused model, working collaboratively to help people understand their difficulties and learn different strategies to interact with them. She is humbly aware of her white privilege and is passionate with facilitating people to reach their full potential within a caring and empowering environment.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


