I 

People may use substances, such as drugs or alcohol, for a variety of reasons: to be social, to relax, to experiment, or to cope with stress or trauma. Many substances, including unregulated or prescription drugs, alcohol, cannabis, “magic mushrooms”, nicotine, and caffeine can impact a person’s mental, emotional, or physical health. All substance use carries some risk, so it’s important to consider the short-term and long-term effects on your health and wellbeing.

British Columbia is currently experiencing a public health emergency due to toxic drug poisonings and deaths. The supply of unregulated or street drugs is contaminated with other extremely toxic substances, such as fentanyl, carfentanyl and benzodiazepines. Fentanyl and carfentanyl are opioids, that, when mis-used, can cause breathing to slow or stop, leading to brain damage or death. Benzodiazepines (“benzos”) are a type of depressant that causes drowsiness. Street drugs are now being mixed with opioids and benzodiazepines, making them particularly dangerous.

Without testing, it’s impossible to know if street drugs are contaminated. Even a tiny amount of fentanyl, equivalent to three grains of salt, can cause a fatal overdose, especially in first-time users. 

If you use or intend to use street drugs, including prescription drugs not directly dispensed from a pharmacy, there are steps you can take to reduce the risk of an overdose or toxic drug poisoning:

Look for the following observable signs that someone may be experiencing overdose or drug poisoning requiring emergency intervention:  

If someone is experiencing a known or suspected overdose or toxic drug poisoning, immediate action is needed.

Note: The provincial Good Samaritan Act and the federal Good Samaritan Drug Overdose Act offer legal protections to anyone who seeks emergency support during an overdose. This includes the person experiencing an overdose, the person who calls for help, whether they stay or leave from the overdose scene before first responders arrive, and anyone else who is at the scene.

Naloxone is a medication that reverses overdose and drug poisoning from fentanyl and other opioids. Even if someone has been given naloxone, it can wear off before they have completely recovered from the overdose. They may need multiple doses or other lifesaving medical interventions. Note that naloxone will not be effective in reversing drug overdose or poisoning in non-opiate related overdose or poisoning incidents.

Administering naloxone when it is not needed will not cause harm. Always administer if overdose is suspected. Always call for help. An overdose is always a medical emergency.

Naloxone kits are found in designated cabinets in various locations on SFU’s three campuses. The kits include two doses of nasal naloxone and instructions. The cabinets are most frequently co-located near an emergency phone and/or AED. All Campus Public Safety responders on SFU's three campuses also carry doses of nasal naloxone, are first aid certified and trained to administer naloxone.

Naloxone kits are available for free at B.C. pharmacies and other designated sites through the Province’s Take Home Naloxone (THN) program.

Find out where you can get a naloxone kit

This map shows where naloxone kits are available on campus.

Toward the Heart provides a free, self-directed online course on how to respond to an overdose or toxic drug poisoning and administer nasal spray or injectable naloxone.  

Take the training

If you are concerned about your substance use and want to get help, the following support resources are available:

Health and Counselling Services: Free mental health counselling services for SFU and FIC students

My SSP: Free 24/7 mental health support for all SFU and FIC students. 

Alcoholics Anonymous: The SFU Multifaith Centre hosts weekly AA meetings, open to all students, staff, and faculty, regardless of ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, religion, income or profession 

Employee and Family Assistance Program (EFAP): Mental health and counselling services for eligible SFU employees

8-1-1: Call 8-1-1 from anywhere in B.C. anytime of the day or night to speak to a health services navigator. They can help you find health information and services or connect you directly with a registered nurse.

Alcohol and Drug Information & Referral Service: Individual, family, and small group counselling for people of all ages who are affected by alcohol and other drug use. Call the 24-hour BC Alcohol and Drug Information and Referral Service toll-free from anywhere in B.C. at 1-800-663-1441 or from the Lower Mainland at 1-604-660-9382.

BC Mental Health & Substance Use Services: Listing of substance use and mental health services for children, adolescents and adults across B.C.

Here to Help: Information related to substance use and mental health, including personal stories, self-help resources and information about getting help

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


