If you are in distress, you can call or text 988 at any time. If it is an emergency, call 9-1-1 or go to your local emergency department.

Mental Health Commission of Canada offers several evidence-based mental health training programs that are founded on best practices, research, and methodologies.

The Mental Health Commission of Canada (MHCC) leads the development and dissemination of innovative programs and tools to support the mental health and wellness of people in Canada.

The Mental Health Commission of Canada (MHCC) leads the development and dissemination of innovative programs and tools to support the mental health and wellness of Canadians.

Home › National Standard for Mental Health and Well-Being for Post-Secondary Students

The leap to higher education is among life’s defining moments.  Our post secondary standard empowers institutions to foster environments where mental health is a shared priority. Rooted in compassion and guided by evidence, it’s more than a guideline—it’s a commitment to student well-being.

The National Standard of Canada for Mental Health and Well-Being for Post-Secondary Students — the first of its kind in the world — is a set of flexible, voluntary guidelines to help post-secondary institutions support the mental-health and well-being of their students.

The Standard is adaptable, so each post-secondary institution can decide what is achievable based on their situation, resources, and community context.

And because it’s grounded in a commitment to continuous improvement, each can determine its own priorities for improving student mental health and well-being over time, no matter where they start.

The first of its kind in the world — is a set of flexible, voluntary guidelines to help post-secondary institutions support the mental-health and well-being of their students.

Insights and strategies from campuses aligning with the Standard

This tool is designed to support Canadian post-secondary institutions as they begin aligning with the voluntary National Standard of Canada for Mental Health and Well-Being for Post-Secondary Students.

LEARN MORE

This resource highlights common barriers and enablers that institutions are experiencing in their work to promote and improve student mental health on campus.

LEARN MORE

We asked 4 post-secondary students to share their unique perspectives on mental health topics, including life promotion, harm reduction, mental health supports, learning environments, and interpersonal factors.

LEARN MORE

Our Starter Kit is designed to help post-secondary institutions take their first steps in implementing the Standard.

Discover common barriers and enablers that post-secondary institutions are experiencing as they work with the Standard.

Our Guiding Your Work resource will help ensure that your implementation efforts agree with its recommendations.

Learn more about the Campus Mental Health Action Tracker that allows your post-secondary institution to track implementation of the Standard – for free.

Browse the National Standard for Mental Health and Well- Being for Post-Secondary Students – FAQ.

Read the literature review summary on emerging and promising practices for the psychological health and safety of post-secondary students.

The Standard is accompanied by eight tools featuring practical guidance to support your implementation journey.

The tools were created by the technical committee that developed the Standard and cover a variety of topics including:

Get early access to resources to help you align your implementation journey with the Standard

Watch a video series featuring students sharing insights on a range of mental health topics, from life promotion and harm reduction to mental health supports, learning environments, and the interpersonal factors of mental health, as reflected in the guidance of the Standard.

Read about post-secondary institution successes and lessons learned one year after the Standard’s October 2020 release.

Learn how to better support students throughout the pandemic with our Post-Secondary Student’s Guide to Student Mental Health During COVID-19.

Read a report about COVID-19’s impact on campus mental health from student affairs leaders.



© 2025 Mental Health Commission of Canada

