I 

Connect with other international students at SFU Burnaby in our in-person support group. Share experiences, explore challenges, and build community together. Join anytime during the term—regular attendance helps deepen connections.

SFU Health and Counselling is offering an in person International Student Support group for all international students on Burnaby Campus.

Our intention is to provide an opportunity for international students to meet and connect in a safe and inviting space, and be able to build a community of support on campus. This will be a space to discuss various challenges and concerns often experienced by international students and gain tools to navigate them.

You can join this group any point during the term, though we recommend regular attendance as it builds community.

Registration is required.

If interested, please email Shahla at sjalalim@sfu.ca.

October 8 to December 10

Wednesdays | 1:30 - 3:00 PM

Location: HCS at Burnaby campus in the Maggie Benston Centre.

Registered Clinical Counsellor

Shahla is a Registered Clinical Counsellor, with a lived experience as an immigrant, an international student and is a Persian-Canadian. She graduated with an MA degree in Counselling Psychology from University of British Columbia. Shahla provides counselling in both English and Farsi, and works from a humanistic, attachment and emotion focused lens. As a therapist, Shahla strives to provide a warm, inviting, and safe environment. She is trained in EMDR, Mindfulness, and CBT techniques and helps clients in rediscovering and rebuilding those parts that may have been lost or bent as a result of traumatic incidents in life. She is passionate about animal assisted therapy. Shahla believes that animal assisted therapy can greatly help with individual’s engagement in therapy and facilitate healing from traumatic events. Shahla is very excited to invite her dog Eva- a Bernes Mountain dog mix- to join the therapeutic experience of individuals who are comfortable to have a canine presence in their session.

Practicum Student

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


