F I

Contact the SVSPO: 778.782.7233 | sv-support@sfu.ca

Support for Faculty

Responding to a Disclosure

Classroom Incidents

Trauma-Informed Pedagogy

The SVSPO offers confidential support and guidance for any member of the SFU and FIC community who has been impacted by sexual violence, including faculty and teaching support staff. The SVSPO can assist people who have experienced or witnessed sexual violence or who are providing support to someone else.

To access the SVSPO’s support services:

Here are some situations where we can help:

SVSPO case managers are available Monday-Friday, 9am-4:30pm (excluding statutory holidays) by email at sv-support@sfu.ca or by phone at 778.782.7233. For other options, please visit the Contact Us page.

Our education team offers free, on-demand workshops and outreach sessions for all members of the SFU and FIC communities (students and employees). Visit Request a Workshop to learn more. 

Keep a copy of the Responding to Disclosures of Sexual Violence and Misconduct Guide easily accessible.

Listen:

Respond with compassion and refrain from asking prying questions about what happened.

Believe:

Validate their feelings and let them know that it is not their fault.

Many people who experience sexual violence blame themselves or fear they will not be believed. This fear of not being believed often prevents them from disclosing their experience or getting support.

Empower:

Ask them what they need or how you can support them. Offer to connect them with the support resources of their choice.

If the person wants to report the incident to SFU, refer them to the SVSPO. A case manager can guide them through the reporting process. More information about SFU reporting options is available here. 

Safeguard privacy and confidentiality:

Do not share any identifying information without their explicit consent. An SVSPO case manager can provide guidance without requiring you to disclose the student's identity.

De-brief with an SVSPO case manager:

An SVSPO case manager can provide you with guidance, resources, and personal support.

Disclosures in written assignments:

Disclosures in group discussions:

Addressing an incident in your classroom or learning environment can simply mean pointing out the behaviour or language and saying that it does not correspond to the expectations for respectful conduct in the syllabus. If desired, you can redirect by inviting the individual who engaged in problematic behaviour to follow up with you outside of class time if they have questions. You may also follow up with your class to remind them of support resources.

The Office of Student Support, Rights, and Responsibilities, the Centre for Educational Excellence (CEE) and the SVSPO can consult with you and provide guidance if you are unsure about how to address any issues that come up in your classroom.

Content notes (also referred to as “content warnings”) give students advance notice of content that could be distressing for people impacted by sexual violence or other forms of trauma.

Content notes can be used in the following ways:

A content note should include the following elements:

For a deep dive into content notes as a component of trauma-informed pedagogy, the SVSPO co-authored a blog article on content notes with the Centre for Educational Excellence and the Student Learning Commons. 

Read the blog article on content notes

For general course content:

Content Note: In this course, we will discuss issues related to sexual violence, intimate partner violence, and racism. I recognize that this content may bring up difficult feelings for people who have been impacted by these issues. If you are concerned about this content, you are invited to seek support from one of the campus services listed below. We can also discuss how to achieve the same learning goal from a different pathway.

SFU’s Sexual Violence Support & Prevention Office
https://www.sfu.ca/sexual-violence.html
SFU Health & Counselling Services
https://www.sfu.ca/students/health/

For a specific reading, class or assignment:

Content note: This text includes descriptions of sexual violence, intimate partner violence, and racism against a Black woman. We will discuss this reading in class on September 24. If you have concerns about your ability to engage with this material, you are invited to seek confidential support from one of the campus services listed below. We can also discuss how to achieve the same learning goal from a different pathway.

SFU’s Sexual Violence Support & Prevention Office
https://www.sfu.ca/sexual-violence.html
SFU Health & Counselling Services
https://www.sfu.ca/students/health/

SFU’s Sexual Violence and Misconduct Prevention, Education, and Support Policy (GP 44) outlines the following:

This webpage has been developed collaboratively by the SVSPO and the Centre for Educational Excellence. We would also like to thank the UBC Sexual Violence Prevention and Response Office for allowing us to adapt their Faculty and Teaching Staff webpage for the SFU community.

West Mall Centre (WMC) 1301
8888 University Drive
Burnaby, B.C.
Canada V5A 1S6

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


