F I

Contact the SVSPO: 778.782.7233 | sv-support@sfu.ca

As a part of the Sexual Violence Support & Prevention Office’s (SVSPO) dedication to preventative education, the Safe(r) Partying initiative works to encourage harm reduction practices and an increased awareness of effective active bystander intervention strategies within a party setting.

Make a plan for the night

Get those carbs

Pace yourself

Practice safer sex

Know the signs of alcohol poisoning and an overdose

Reduce harm

Look out for each other and be an active bystander

And don’t forget to have fun!

The Safe(r) Party Plan, prepared by the SVSPO, provides information for both party throwers and party goers on how to reduce harm before, during, and after the event. The Plan also outlines:  

a. How to be an Active Bystander;

b. How to practice Consent & Empowering Choice;

c. How to Respond to Disclosures;

d. How to access Support Resources.

The Plan is intended to be adopted by SFU university community groups and other relevant university partners who are planning events, to assist in creating safe(r) and respectful party environments.  

Download the SVSPO’s Safe(r) Party Plan today.

Our 2023-2024 Active Bystander Network members created a safer partying checklist to share with your friends to create a plan for an evening of fun! Check out this resource made by students for students. Download the resource below.

Safer Partying Plan Checklist

For more ways to practice safe(r) partying, please refer to the following measures from other institutions.  

UBC’s Safer Party Plan

UC Davis’ Safe Party Initiative Website


Ryerson University's Consent & Event Planning Check-List  

Ryerson University’s Event Planning Check-List

SFU’s Accessible & Inclusive Event Planning Lists

A Note of Thanks


In the formation of this initiative, we thank and recognize the leadership of Caitlin Doherty on this project, as well as the work from our partners including, but not limited to, SFU Active Bystander Network, SFSS Out On Campus, SFSS Women’s Centre, SFU Residence and Housing, SFSS, SFU Health and Counselling, and SFU Athletics. 

West Mall Centre (WMC) 1301
8888 University Drive
Burnaby, B.C.
Canada V5A 1S6

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


