Only for iPhone

Free · In-App Purchases · Designed for iPhone

  Put the iPhone on your stomach. Breathe deeply. Enjoy...

FOR ADVANCED BELLY-BREATHERS ONLY

BellyBio (Belly Biofeedback) is a triple innovation in deep abdominal breathing, biofeedback and music:

1 – DEEP BREATHING GETS ADDICTIVE
BellyBio generates beautiful music & light perfectly synchronized to your deep abdominal breathing movements, making deep breathing more pleasant and rewarding than ever. You're going to love playing with your inner balloon.

2 – BIOFEEDBACK GETS SIMPLE
BellyBio turns your iPhone/iPod Touch into a highly-sensitive deep breathing sensor providing a real-time, objective stress-level index based on your breathing pattern. Biofeedback thus becomes more simple and powerful --not to mention affordable-- than ever, so you can now know for sure who's the coolest dude in the neighborhood.

3 – MUSIC GETS BREATHABLE
The first "Abdominal Music Player", BellyBio makes music play in sync with your breathing, which in return makes your breathing calm down. Is it you who follow the music or the music that follows you? You don't listen to music anymore, you merge with it.

IMPORTANT NOTICE -- Practicing BellyBio will require you to:

a) BE ABLE TO NATURALLY BREATHE DEEPLY AND SLOWLY FROM YOUR BELLY, meaning your belly --and not your chest-- must significantly and effortlessly inflate when you inhale and deflate when you exhale. If you can't, you'd probably better not download this app since nothing is more annoying and ineffective than struggling to achieve deep abdominal breathing (and by the way this will perhaps avoid somewhat angry customer ratings... ;-))

b) PROPERLY POSITION THE iPHONE ON YOUR PELVIS, FACE UP, SO AS TO MAKE IT TILT BACK & FORTH when you breathe deeply in & out from your belly (BellyBio measures the increase/decrease of the angle between the iPhone and your body). The bottom of the iPhone should rest still on your pelvis while the top moves up and down with your lower belly as you breathe in & out. 

WATCH THE IN-APP DEMO to see how it works (www.youtube.com/bellybio).

The app is quite heavy (170 Mo) due to the multiformat music base. Wifi is required to download it.

==========

FEATURES
- Several interactive musical themes you can breathe deeply in and out (i.e. have BellyBio play in sync with your deep abdominal breathing)
- One of those themes (“Calmitude pitch”) provides you with a direct audio stress-level feedback through the pitch of the inhaling tone (the lower the stress, the lower the pitch)
- Choice of breathing colors displayed in sync with each in- and out-breath
- Graph showing real-time breathing and stress curves
- Log (date, duration of use, minimum stress, minimum breathrate, Qi production)
- 3D-earth animation showing all BellyBio users on the planet
- Whether you have an iPhone or an iPod Touch, the main home button must always be close to your lap, not to your chest.
- Child-proof (successfully tested on 5-year-old with adult assistance)

QUOTES (sort of)
- "All thumbs and navels up!!!" (Buddha, India)
- "BellyBio rests on the belly just like the leaf floats on the sea." (Lao Tzu, China)
- "Bellissimo BellyBio!" (L. Da Vinci, Italy)
- "To breathe or not to breathe? To breathe, period. With BellyBio!" (W. Shakespeare, UK) 
- "I play BellyBio, therefore I stop thinking, therefore I am." (R. Descartes, France)
- "So cool!" (I. Newton, UK)
- "Makes me wanna compose a dozen sonatas and concertos for BellyBio! Please give me 10 minutes." (W. A. Mozart, Austria)
- "Even with only one ear, this thing just blew my mind!" (V. Van Gogh, Netherlands)
- "Undoubtedly absolute." (A. Einstein, Germany)
- "Why didn't they call it iBelly?" (S. Jobs, USA)

WARNING
This application is not meant to substitute for medical diagnosis and/or treatment. Should you feel any pain or discomfort, please stop immediately and consult your physician or health professional.  more

Athaanga

Doesn’t matter that this app is never updated. It serves its purpose perfectly and is amazing for beginners like me who is just starting with belly bio breathing. I can’t believe how it is able to track my breathing and play music to encourage me if I’m on track. Super innovative app and totally worth the try. Did I mention it’s free?!?!

👍🙏

Athaanga

Doesn’t matter that this app is never updated. It serves its purpose perfectly and is amazing for beginners like me who is just starting with belly bio breathing. I can’t believe how it is able to track my breathing and play music to encourage me if I’m on track. Super innovative app and totally worth the try. Did I mention it’s free?!?! Developer Response 2024-06-17 👍🙏

Brownsy1

Will download but won’t stay open.

Yes, some remaining bugs. Sorry. 

Brownsy1

Will download but won’t stay open. Developer Response 2024-06-17 Yes, some remaining bugs. Sorry. 

Emluuuucy

I was well impressed by this meditation tool. You put it on your lower abdomen (belly) and breathe in and out deeply. This enables you to train your mind to use belly breathing we should use, instead of upper chest breathing which causes stress and poor oxygenation. After a while of wave sounds (on a beach) turn into music to let you know you have entered into a proper deep breathing state. I like to use the waves.This uses the tilt sense of the device, hence the pants thing. You can select from three musics, or buy new ones if you wish.I have no idea why it gets so low ratings, because it's a great tool to meditate to and to take a look at your breathing rate... As well as a wonderful way to breathe out stress and panic. Many applications. There is a great readout feature to peruse your breathing rate.

Emluuuucy

I was well impressed by this meditation tool. You put it on your lower abdomen (belly) and breathe in and out deeply. This enables you to train your mind to use belly breathing we should use, instead of upper chest breathing which causes stress and poor oxygenation. After a while of wave sounds (on a beach) turn into music to let you know you have entered into a proper deep breathing state. I like to use the waves.This uses the tilt sense of the device, hence the pants thing. You can select from three musics, or buy new ones if you wish.I have no idea why it gets so low ratings, because it's a great tool to meditate to and to take a look at your breathing rate... As well as a wonderful way to breathe out stress and panic. Many applications. There is a great readout feature to peruse your breathing rate. 

Chia196

I’m a psychotherapist and I teach my patients deep belly breathing to help them lower anxiety and become more grounded. The Belly Biofeedback application is a fabulous accompaniment and I recommend that my patients download the application and use it as part of their relaxation strategy.

Chia196

I’m a psychotherapist and I teach my patients deep belly breathing to help them lower anxiety and become more grounded. The Belly Biofeedback application is a fabulous accompaniment and I recommend that my patients download the application and use it as part of their relaxation strategy. 

This app has been updated by Apple to display the Apple Watch app icon.

Fix purchase restoration

Bug fixes (music playing with breathing)

Bug fixes

Update for iOS 8



  This app has been updated by Apple to display the Apple Watch app icon.

Fix purchase restoration  more

The developer, RelaxLine, has not provided details about its privacy practices and handling of data to Apple. For more information, see the developer’s privacy policy.

To help you better understand the developer’s responses, see  Privacy Definitions and Examples . 

Privacy practices may vary, for example, based on the features you use or your age.  Learn More  

The developer will be required to provide privacy details when they submit their next app update.

The developer, RelaxLine, has not provided details about its privacy practices and handling of data to Apple. For more information, see the developer’s privacy policy.

The developer will be required to provide privacy details when they submit their next app update.

The developer has not yet indicated which accessibility features this app supports.  Learn More 

Health & Fitness

Deep breathing biofeedback

Health & Fitness

Improve your breathing.

Breathe for sleep calm anxiety

Health & Fitness

Breath Counter, Timer, Trainer

Help for managing chronic pain

Relieve stress and relax.

Science Based Breath Training

Heart Rate and Coherence

Breath Meditation Relax Sleep

Copyright © 2025 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.

