Find a Site

While nothing is completely safe, there are ways you can reduce your risk. 

Use with a buddy or at overdose prevention sites. If you choose to use alone, get someone to look in on you and call for help if needed.

Test a small amount first, then go slowly.

Be prepared if an overdose happens. Get training and carry naloxone.

Using more than one substance increases the risk of overdose. Mixing your drugs (including prescription drugs) with alcohol or other substances is dangerous. If you do mix, use less than you normally would and go slowly.

Being sick, run down or having a chronic illness can increase the risk of overdose. Your tolerance can also be lower if you haven't used for a while, or if you are using a substance for the first time.

For registered sites, please see the Safer Inhalation Supplies: How to Order, Distribute and Use Supplies

Learn more about different safer smoking supplies, how to use them and how best to care for them in this printable brochure. 



 

 

 

Tablets medications (pills) from a pharmacy are less likely to cause an overdose compared to drugs or pills from the illicit market - this is because the dose and contents of prescribed drugs are known.

Tablet medications contain fillers (e.g. coatings and powders) that can cause harm when injected, such as serious infections, abscesses and damage to the veins, skin, heart, and lungs. These risks can be reduced by using harm reduction supplies, including filters.

Below are resources for anyone who is injecting tablet medications (pills) and would like to do so more safely:Instructional Pamphlets:

1. Injection Pamphlet - Sterifilt Fast 

2. Injection Pamphlet - Cotton Filters

3. Injection Pamphlets - Preparing for Injection  

 

Click here for the guidance resource

 

SmartSexResource is a provincial sexual health website, offering comprehensive information, education and resources on sexually transmitted infections, trends and more. 



 Copyright 2025, Toward the Heart • All rights reserved

Toward the Heart is a project of the provincial Harm Reduction Program

Website developed by Hello Cool World. 
							Featuring artwork from Wakes You Up: Naloxone and the Inner City Youth Experience.

