I 

My Student Support Program (My SSP) provides free, confidential, 24/7 mental health support for SFU and FIC students. The service is multilingual and available worldwide, offering access to professional counsellors by phone, chat, or through short-term virtual or in-person appointments—wherever you are. Learn how to access free individual counselling appointments through MySSP today!

Designed to support your overall well-being, My SSP offers both immediate assistance and short-term counselling, along with a rich library of digital mental-health resources. Through the My SSP app, you can access live support, explore articles and self-guided tools, take well-being assessments, and even join virtual fitness sessions to help you care for your mind and body.

My SSP provides a valuable service for after-hours support when Health & Counselling is closed, or if you're living abroad and need urgent crisis assistance. 

Read My SSP FAQs

You don’t need a diagnosis or any major concern to contact My SSP.

After downloading, create your profile and select Simon Fraser University to unlock student access.

Privacy note: Your conversations are confidential and never shared with SFU.

If you want to speak with someone right away, you can connect 24/7 through:

In-app chat

Phone call

When you connect via chat or call, a representative will gather your name, school, and reason for support to connect you with the first available counsellor. If you have a specific language preference or relevant lived experience, please mention it during the intake process. If you are looking for a short-term counselling plan, let the representative know. They will connect you with a counsellor as soon as possible, depending on availability. My SSP counsellors can provide real-time support or arrange short-term scheduled sessions as needed.

You can request short-term individual counselling either locally in your community or virtually. This is a good option if you want deeper work or continuity with the same provider.

Call My SSP and clearly state what you need. For example:

“I’d like to book short-term counselling with the same provider for a few sessions. I prefer someone in my community / in person / virtual.”

“I’m requesting an ongoing counselling plan with a counsellor who matches my lived experience (e.g., language, religion, culture, identity).”

It’s common to need to advocate for yourself—being specific helps My SSP match you with the right support.

You can request:

In-person counselling near your home

Virtual counselling

A counsellor with specific cultural, linguistic, or lived experience

A small number of short-term sessions with continuity

My SSP will either schedule your sessions right away or call you back once they find a suitable counsellor. My SSP counsellors are registered counsellors with the same or equivalent qualifications of those you might access through Health & Counselling.

From Canada or the U.S.: 1-833-768-2188


Outside of North America: 001-416-380-6578

All SFU and FIC students can connect with My SSP via chat and phone while traveling outside the U.S. and Canada.

By Chat

To use the chat feature, you need access to your provider network (data access) or a Wi-Fi connection. The chat function through the free My SSP app works just as it does when accessed from within Canada or the U.S. If you encounter difficulties, check your internet connectivity. Some countries may have additional firewall protections that block certain apps. If this happens, consider calling My SSP instead.

By Phone/Call

There are two options for making a call to My SSP while outside the U.S. or Canada:

Note: When using the collect call option, the My SSP auto-attendant messaging is bypassed, and you will connect directly with a representative. Please explain that you are a student accessing My SSP services from outside Canada/U.S.

Troubleshooting: If you are unable to make or receive Wi-Fi calls, it may be due to one of the following reasons:

Note: Making calls over Wi-Fi may still count against your regular minutes allowance and be charged as an international call, depending on your phone plan. Be sure to read your carrier's policies to understand any potential restrictions and charges related to your situation.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


