If you are in an emergency, in crisis or need someone to talk to, there is help.

In light of the recent Canada Post disruption, online giving is the quickest and most effective way to support CAMH Foundation. Thank you for your understanding and support.

Access CAMH

Centralized information, intake and scheduling. Access CAMH makes it easy to find support – simply call 416-535-8501, option 2. 

Referral Form

For mental health services, a referral form needs to be completed by a healthcare provider. For addictions services, patient can self-refer.

Visiting CAMH

Planning on visiting CAMH? Find contact information, directions and accessibility for each of our three main sites.

Visiting CAMH

Planning on visiting CAMH? Find contact information, directions and accessibility for each of our three main sites.

Planning on visiting CAMH? Find contact information, directions and accessibility for each of our three main sites.

Use this series of free online tutorials as the starting point to learn about and understand a wide range of mental health topics.

Accessible, reliable, professionally produced resources on an array of mental health topics for patients, families, students and professionals.

If you are in an emergency, in crisis or need someone to talk to, there is a list of resources available for areas in and around Toronto.

The CAMH Store offers a wide array of mental illness and addiction resources for patients, families, students and professionals. Search or browse our catalogue of brochures and booklets, textbooks, manuals and assessment tools.

Open to professionals and the general public, our comprehensive resources and services support and enhance CAMH's research and clinical programs, and they facilitate learning, dynamic knowledge exchange and health promotion initiatives.

Fuelling the next generation of groundbreaking research and innovation dedicated to finding the causes of and cures for mental illness.

Participate in Research - FAQs

Answers to frequent questions about joining a CAMH study, including how to sign up, what's involved, and how we protect your rights and confidentiality.

Each year CAMH provides opportunities to the next generation of scientists: today’s undergraduate students, graduate students and postdoctoral researchers. Train in a unique learning environment and help contribute to the breakthrough mental health research and treatments of tomorrow

Find the Course That's Right for You

Browse our entire selection of certificate programs, webinars and workshops.

Clinical & Research Opportunities for Professionals in Training

Study in a world-class setting to become a leader in the field of mental health.

Make a one-time donation

With your support, CAMH researchers are revolutionizing the ways we diagnose, treat, and prevent mental illness. Donate today.

Real stories of courage, hope and discovery. Made possible through your continued support of CAMH.

Careers at CAMH

By working at CAMH, you can help people affected by mental illness and support their recovery.  Join the team. Everyone who works at CAMH becomes an advocate for mental health. 

The Crisis is Real

We are in the grips of a crisis that ruins health, threatens lives and hurts economies. Knowing the facts is the first step in creating hope.

Mental Health Statistics

The latest facts and statistics on mental illness and addiction, who's affected and their impact on Canadians. 

Challenging the stigma associated with mental illness takes understanding, education and a closer look at our own attitudes toward health.

The Mental Health Facility of the Future

Turning what was once a walled institution into a symbol of hope for the future of mental health care.

Vision & Guiding Principles

How do you replace an institution with an urban village? Lots of planning, imagination and a long-term commitment to serving patients, staff and the community.

History of Queen Street Site

Our history—evolving from an asylum into a modern health facility with patients at the centre of care—is the history of mental health care in Canada.

CAMH advocates for policies that are responsive to the needs of people with mental illness and addictions.

CAMH believes in the principle of equity. We respect the diversity of the individuals and communities we serve.



Opioids are a family of drugs that are usually prescribed to relieve pain, control coughs and diarrhea and treat addiction to other opioids.

​Prescription Opioids

M, morph (for morphine); meth (for methadone); percs (for Percodan, Percocet); juice (for Dilaudid)


Opioids are a family of drugs that are usually prescribed to relieve pain. Examples include codeine (in Tylenol No. 2, No. 3 and No. 4), oxycodone, morphine, hydromorphone (Dilaudid) and fentanyl. Other medical uses include controlling coughs and diarrhea, and treating addiction to other opioids. Opioids can produce euphoria, making them prone to abuse. Some people use opioids for their ability to produce a mellow, relaxed “high.”



If you or someone you know uses opioids, it is a good idea to have a free naloxone kit. Naloxone is a medication that can temporarily reverse the effects of an opioid overdose and allow time for medical help to arrive.



    Some opioids, such as morphine and codeine, occur naturally as a gummy substance collected from the seed pod of the opium poppy, which grows in southern Asia. Semi-synthetic opioids, such as hydromorphone or hydrocodone, are made by changing the chemical structure of these naturally occurring opioids. Synthetic opioids, such as methadone, are made from chemicals without using a naturally occurring opioid as starting material.



    Prescription opioids come in various forms, including as tablets, capsules, syrups, solutions and suppositories.



Opioids are prescribed by licensed medical practitioners to people with acute or chronic pain. Opioids are also prescribed to people with moderate to severe coughs and diarrhea. The opioids methadone and buprenorphine are prescribed to treat addiction to other opioids.



Using prescription opioids for reasons other than their medical purpose is considered abuse. Much attention is given to the abuse of illegal opioid drugs, such as heroin. However, some of the most commonly abused opioids are prescription drugs, such as codeine-containing Tylenol, hydromorphone, oxycodone, morphine and others.



    Low doses of opioids suppress the sensation of pain and the emotional response to pain. They may also produce euphoria, drowsiness, relaxation, difficulty concentrating, constricted pupils, a slight decrease in respiratory rate, nausea, vomiting, constipation, loss of appetite and sweating. With higher doses, these effects are more intense and last longer.



    The way opioids affect you depends on many factors, including:



    The onset and intensity of the effects of opioids vary depending on how the drugs are taken. When taken orally, the effects come on gradually and are usually felt in about 10 to 20 minutes. When injected into a vein, the effects are most intense and are felt within one minute. When opioids are taken to relieve pain, the duration of the effect varies depending on the type of opioid taken. For many opioids, a single dose can provide pain relief for four to five hours.



    When opioids are used as directed under medical supervision, there is little risk of addiction. However, the risk appears to be higher in people with a history of abuse or addiction.



    Anyone who takes opioids regularly will develop physical dependence. Physical dependence is the result of the body adapting to the presence of the drug, and is not the same as addiction. A person who is physically dependent will experience withdrawal symptoms about six to 12 hours after last taking a short-acting opioid, such as hydromorphone, and about one to three days after last taking a long-acting opioid, such as methadone. With short-acting opioids, withdrawal comes on quickly and is intense; with longer-acting opioids, withdrawal comes on more gradually and is less intense.



    Symptoms of withdrawal include:



    Symptoms usually subside after a week, although some, such as anxiety, insomnia and drug craving, may continue for a long time. Opioid withdrawal is rarely life-threatening.



Opioids can be dangerous if they are used without medical supervision. Here are some of the reasons why:



Long-term use of opioids can cause constipation, decreased interest in sex, menstrual irregularities and mood swings. Addiction to opioids can have devastating long-term social, financial and emotional effects.


 


Source:
Do You Know... Prescription Opioids © 2012 Centre for Addiction and Mental Health



Treatment at CAMH: Access CAMH
Help for families from CAMH 
ConnexOntario  

    Kids Help Phone at 1 800 668-6868
    



A free tutorial on addictions is available on the Mental Health 101 page.

Addiction: An Information Guide
    (PDF)

Opioids: How to Use Them Safely
    (PDF)

5 Steps to Save a Life (PDF)

About Percs, Oxys, and Other Pain Pills for Youth
    (PDF) 

Opioids: What You and Your Friends Need to Know
    (PDF)
    

Youth and Prescription Painkillers: What Parents Need to Know      

Straight Talk: Oxycodone      

Straight Talk: Street Methadone
    (PDF)
    

Straight Talk: Street Fentanyl
    (PDF)
    

Do You Know. . . Methadone 
   (PDF)      

Opioid Agonist Therapy: Information for Clients (PDF)
    

Making the Choice, Making It Work
    (PDF)

Best Advice for People Taking Opioid Medication   (Video by Dr. Mike Evans) 



Back to top



Until December 2, all donations will be matched to help create a future where Canadians can get the help they need, when they need it—no matter who or where they are.

CAMH Switchboard

From the GTA: 416 535-8501


Toll-free: 1 800 463-2338

To Access CAMH Clinical Services

416 535-8501, press 2

We have multiple locations. Find directions.

Copyright 2025 CAMH

Keep your finger on our pulse – latest CAMH news, discoveries and ways to get involved delivered to your inbox.

Please select a newsletter

Please complete the following:

Required Fields

Please select a newsletter option

Please input a first name

Please input a last name

Please input an email address

By clicking Sign Up below, I consent to receive electronic communications (as selected above) from CAMH and CAMH Foundation. To unsubscribe at any time click the link in our mailing or email: unsubscribe@camh.ca

Please agree to the Terms of Use

 

We look forward to keeping you informed, inspired and involved in all things CAMH.

Every donation moves us closer to a future where no one is left behind.

