The Black Emotional and Mental Health Collective (BEAM) is a national 501c3organization that trains, funds, holds healing space and resources an international network of therapists, wellness practitioners, healing justice efforts and grassroots wellness initiatives to transform and support the well being and mental health of our most marginalized communities.

BEAM trains community leaders, therapists, wellness practitioners, teachers, barbers, medical professionals, and others to apply healing justice–informed strategies that support people in mental health crisis while building and strengthening community-based systems of care.  

We fund, organize and sponsor healing justice efforts through an international “Underground Wellness Network” of values aligned therapists, wellness practitioners and grassroots wellness initiatives to support the most vulnerable and underserved communities.

We create spaces and tools for collective healing and crisis response. We hold monthly healing circles in Inglewood, Atlanta and virtually to teach critical healing strategies, mental health interventions and support collective care. We have a "train the trainer" model that teaches more community leaders on how to hold circles and makes our work scalable and sustainable.

We partner with our grantees and practitioners to learn from them and let them teach us as we share. We build systems of wellness together. We innovate, we collaborate, and we take care of our people.

Search Healing Justice Resources, Toolkits, Curriculum and more

“I dare myself to dream of us moving from survival to potential, from merely getting by to a positive getting over.” JOSEPH BEAM

Show your commitment to collective care by shopping BEAM’s new Rooted in Healing collection. Every purchase helps fund mental health education and healing justice work for Black communities and marginalized communities.

We collect your email address data to send you promotional emails. You can opt-out at any time. Read our Privacy Policy to learn more.

