I 

This workshop series aims to strengthen skills that many people with ADHD find difficult, while also understanding and harnessing their ADHD brain.

This neurodivergent-affirming skills workshop is the first in a series of workshops designed for adults with ADHD in a post-secondary setting. No diagnosis is necessary. This series of evidence-based skills training workshops will be from Cognitive Behavior Therapy (CBT) and Compassion Focused Therapy (CFT) approaches. Voices and skills from the ADHD community will also be amplified and used. 

You can participate by observing the workshop or by more actively taking part in the workshop or Canvas discussion posts. We encourage confidentiality in participation. You can also look at the Handout resources in the Canvas Files or watch a video of previous workshops. These can be played at faster speeds to keep attention, and there are bookmarks in the video so that you can re-listen to parts if you want to. We encourage folk to listen to the whole video in order to understand the handouts better. This workshop series can be used in conjunction with medication or as a stand alone skills training.

Workshop 1 - A recording of "planning and prioritising and organising" is now available on Canvas. It can be played at different speeds, paused and jump to relisten to different sections.

Workshop 2 - Task initiation and time management. Handouts and a PDF of the workshop slides are now available on Canvas in Module 2. A recording of the workshop will be posted soon. 

Workshop 3 - Big emotions and response inhibition. While enthusiasm and spontaneity can be desirable, sometimes strong emotions and impulsivity can cause difficulties. This ground-breaking workshop seeks to translate evidence-based skills and introduce helpful strategies from the ADHD community. It will also cover dealing with ‘Rejection sensitive dysphoria’, a term widely used in the ADHD community. This workshop has been developed by HCS Psychologists and a Pre-doctoral Psychology Practicum student. 

Workshop 4 - Pervasive Drive for Autonomy (PDA) and Metacognition.

The workshop resources and PDFs are available in the Canvas files.

Watch the seminar

Additional information will be provided soon.

November 18 and December 9 | 12:30 - 1:30 PM

January 13, February 3, February 24 and March 17 | 12:30 - 1:30 PM

The Zoom link will be sent from the Canvas course after registration. A pre-recorded version of the seminar is available on Canvas for preview. Handouts containing the seminar's content are also provided on Canvas.

Registered Psychologist #2466
language Additional languages spoken: French

Jennifer received her Doctor of Psychology (Psy.D.) at the Adler School of Professional Psychology, Chicago, Illinois.  She is registered with BC College of Psychologists and has extensive experience in counselling, critical incident/trauma work with campus and individual emergency situations.

For over 18 years she has also worked engaging with First Nation’s, Métis and Inuit peoples, communities and systemic challenges in health, education and current efforts for truth and reconciliation. Jennifer has worked with Canada’s northern most Indigenous communities, in addition to projects in Saskatchewan, Alberta and British Columbia.  

Her advocacy is foundational to her work in project evaluation, implementation, and mental health counselling, mentoring and supervision of students.

Registered Psychologist #2558

Shona is a Registered Psychologist who trained as a Clinical Psychologist in Oxford, U.K.. She is a dual citizen who immigrated to Canada when she was 10 years old, previously living in South Africa, Thailand and Malaysia. She predominantly uses a Human Givens and a CBT approach and is a specialist in treating traumas and complex mental health disorders. She uses a strength-based solution-focused model, working collaboratively to help people understand their difficulties and learn different strategies to interact with them. She is humbly aware of her white privilege and is passionate with facilitating people to reach their full potential within a caring and empowering environment.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


