Sooner or Later? A Self-Paced Procrastination Management Program (Canvas Course) - It's easy to fall into the habit of procrastinating. Learn how to start your important tasks sooner with this self-paced course designed by a registered clinical counsellor at SFU. 

ProcrastinationCovers results and reasons for procrastination, as well as 3 key strategies for stopping.

Goal Setting & AccountabilityHelps you set, and follow up, on goals so that you will actually follow through with them!

Study With Me video (Beedie School of Business) - This video takes you through a 2-hour Pomodoro study session with a virtual companion.

Why Do We Procrastinate? (Video, Sci Show) - Gets into neuropsychological, social psychological, and evolutionary explanations of procrastination, and touches on a few strategies to curtail this tendency.

The Little Book of Procrastination RemediesWhy people procrastinate and solutions for overcoming procrastination.

Procrastination Solutions:  Ten Strategies for Combating Procrastination (Oregon State University)

Controlling Procrastination (University of Guelph)Lists more strategies.

Procrastination WorkshopProvides additional strategies to help you stop procrastinating.

Procrastination Avoidance Made Practical (Video, McMaster University) - Outdated in its examples, but gives some valuable strategies for managing procrastination such as watching your self-talk, recognizing your usual "procrastination activities," and employing the "5-minute technique" to get started.

Winning through Wedging (McMaster University) - Goes into additional detail about the "5-minute technique" mentioned in the video above, "Procrastination Avoidance Made Practical".

The Science of Procrastination - And How to Manage it [Video, ASAP Science]Covers the Pomodoro technique, among others.

PerfectionismHelps you figure out if you are a perfectionist and gives you strategies to stop being one.

Perfectionism: A Double-Edged Sword (University of Texas at Austin)Perfectionism is one of the major causes of procrastination. If this is your problem, read about the costs of perfectionism, the difference between perfectionists and healthy strivers, and detailed information about what you can do about it. Don't try all the strategies at once, though - as perfectionists are inclined to do - start with just one or two!

Perfectionism (University of Dundee)Additional information about a major cause of procrastination.

Perfectionism in Writing (Queen's University)An extremely comprehensive resource for those whose perfectionism hampers their ability to write, or their ability to submit what they write.

Distance Education: Strategies for Time ManagementDistance Education offers the opportunity to take procrastination to new heights! Find out how to avoid this temptation.

Time Management for Distance Education PodcastGet audio and visual information on scheduling, procrastination, and other issues. Developed, in cooperation with the Centre for Online and Distance Education (CODE), specifically with the SFU Distance student in mind (17 minutes).

Compulsive Video GamingWhat is gaming addiction and how to overcome it.

FocalFilterA tool for blocking distracting websites.

Simon Fraser University Library is grateful to be located on the lands of the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh (Squamish), səl̓ilw̓ətaʔɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), qiqéyt (Qayqayt), qʼʷa:n̓ƛʼən̓ (Kwantlen), Səmyámə (Semiahmoo), and sc̓əwaθən (Tsawwassen) Nations.

Acknowledging the benefits of occupying this land, the Library commits to becoming a more welcoming space for Indigenous Peoples by centring Indigenous voices in our collections, services, and programs.

