EFAP counselling can help with a wide range of issues including, but not limited to:

Users will also have access to Homewood Health's network of registered licensed counsellors who identify as having extensive experience in counselling clients within the Indigenous community, as well as many counsellors identifying as experts in Inuit, Metis, First Nations and Residential Schools, LGBTQ2+ and BIPOC communities.

For users who wish to access support through a more culturally traditional approach with Elders and/or Knowledge Keepers through Homewood Health, they may call the Intake Centre with a self-identified Elder and/or Knowledge Keeper of their choosing. In circumstances where the Elder is not self-identified at the time of intake, Homewood Health would offer to connect the user to one of their clinical experts who are specialized in Indigenous Culture.

Pathfinder is part of your EFAP offered through Homewood Health and is powered by Homeweb at no cost to the user. You may access Pathfinder on your smartphone, tablet or desktop (Invitation Code: SFU522). Pathfinder tailors personalized care plans and service recommendations based on your unique presenting concern(s). Pathfinder offers you and your family members the ability to create an individual profile, and includes an assessment of the severity of your concern(s) and combines the optimal clinical solution with your unique preferences to create a customized and curated care path.  Some helpful resources that may be accessed through Pathfinder include:

Step 1: Visit Homeweb and click "sign UP"

Step 2: Type in Simon Fraser University and click ‘Find it!’. Select from the list provided. Enter information into the required fields, choose an email and password, and click 'Next Step'.

Step 3: Confirm how you are covered by Homewood Health, (e.g. through your organization or the organization of a family member), and confirm your relationship to the organization (e.g. employee, spouse, dependent, etc.). Submit the additional information required and click ‘Sign Up’ at the bottom of the page.

Facebook
Twitter
YouTube

Hours 8:30am - 4:30pm (Monday - Thursday)
Telephone: 778 782 3237
Business Fax: 778 782 3449

People, Equity and Inclusion
Simon Fraser University
Strand Hall, Room 2170
8888 University Drive

