Download and display the poster on the Good Samaritan Drug Overdose Act to help raise awareness about the law and the importance of calling 911 or your local emergency number in case of an overdose.

Visit Canada.ca/Opioids for more information on the risks of opioids and how to help #StopOverdoses.

The growing number of overdoses and deaths caused by opioids (powerful pain relieving drugs, including fentanyl) is a national public health crisis. Protecting the health and safety of Canadians is a priority for the Government of Canada.

The Good Samaritan Drug Overdose Act is part of the Government’s comprehensive approach to addressing the crisis. It will help encourage Canadians to save a life during an overdose situation. 

The Good Samaritan Drug Overdose Act provides some legal protection for individuals who seek emergency help during an overdose.

The Act became law on May 4, 2017. It complements the Canadian Drugs and Substances Strategy, our comprehensive public health approach to substance use. Harm reduction is a key part of the strategy alongside prevention, treatment, and enforcement.

We hope the Act will help to reduce fear of police attending overdose events and encourage people to help save a life. 

The Good Samaritan Drug Overdose Act provides some legal protection for people who experience or witness an overdose and call 911 or their local emergency number for help.

The Act can protect you from:

The Good Samaritan Drug Overdose Act applies to anyone seeking emergency support during an overdose, including the person experiencing an overdose. The Act protects the person who seeks help, whether they stay or leave from the overdose scene before help arrives. The Act also protects anyone else who is at the scene when help arrives.

The Act does not provide legal protection against more serious offences, such as:

Drug overdoses could happen with others around. Staying at the scene is important to help save the life of the person experiencing an overdose.

Witnesses should:

Tell others about the Good Samaritan Drug Overdose Act.

