Related topics:
                          Find care



            Call 9-1-1 or go immediately to your nearest hospital Emergency Department if you or someone requires immediate medical attention for illness, injury or overdose. For crisis or suicide, call 1 (800) 784-2433. 
          

Go to an Emergency Department for critical or life-threatening conditions or mental health emergencies. Our emergency departments provide the highest level of care for medical issues such as: 

Your loved one may need emergency mental health care if they are:

Wait times can vary depending on time, location and your level of need. People are seen in the Emergency Department based on how hurt or sick they are, which means the sickest people are seen first even if you've arrived before them. Many of Vancouver Coastal Health’s hospital sites provide 24-hour emergency services, however operating hours may vary. Call HealthLink BC at 8-1-1 to verify hours of operation for emergency services.

View Emergency Department wait times

Find a hospital near you 

 

In crisis? Call 9-1-1 for medical emergencies and missing persons. For crisis or suicide, call 1 (800) 784-2433. Online options are also here to support you:


        Find details on locations and services offered at each of the hospitals in the region or use the find a location search to find a hospital near you.
      

Urgent and Primary Care Centres (UPCC) provide patient-centred care by a team of health-care providers, including family doctors, registered nurses, nurse practitioners, social workers and clerical staff.

They are for people who have an urgent but non-life-threatening injury and/or illness, and need to be seen by a doctor or nurse practitioner within 12 to 24 hours. Some examples of injuries/illnesses that may be treated at a UPCC are: 

UPCCs provide team-based, everyday health care. They provide urgent care when you are unable to see your family doctor or nurse practitioner and your injury/illness does not require emergency attention. Please visit an emergency department if you have a critical or life-threatening condition.




On-site x-ray services are available at the City Centre UPCC, North Vancouver UPCC  and Richmond City Centre UPCC.

If possible, bring photo ID, your BC Services Card or CareCard and a list of any medications you are taking. If available, please also bring any Medical Orders of Scope of Treatment (MOST) forms or have a loved one bring them in. 

We also suggest you minimize bringing personal belongings or valuables to the Emergency Department.

Call HealthLink BC at 8-1-1 (7-1-1 for the deaf and hard of hearing) for trusted health advice. 

This free, 24-hour non-emergency telephone service is staffed by trained registered nurses, pharmacists and dietitians who can help answer your health-related questions with translation services in over 130 languages. 

You may also call your family physician, nurse practitioner for general health information. If you have an urgent medication refill, speak with your pharmacist. They can often provide short-term refills and other advice. 


      The VCH web team reviews website suggestions weekly for common themes. While we won't provide direct responses, your feedback is valuable.For non-website-related questions or feedback, please contact us. Health-related queries should be directed to your primary care provider or HealthLinkBC at 8-11.Protecting your privacy is a priority. Avoid including names or identifying details. Learn more on our Privacy and Terms of Use page.
    


        Thank you for pointing out what we can do better in the future.
      


      Vancouver Coastal Health is committed to delivering exceptional care to 1.25 million people, including the First Nations, Métis and Inuit, within the traditional territories of the Heiltsuk, Kitasoo-Xai’xais, Lil’wat, Musqueam, N’Quatqua, Nuxalk, Samahquam, shíshálh, Skatin, Squamish, Tla’amin, Tsleil-Waututh, Wuikinuxv, and Xa’xtsa.
    

Copyright © 2025 Vancouver Coastal Health

