I 

This is a group for folks who are questioning their gender and/or sexuality. 

The 2SLGBTQIA+ Questioning group is a process-oriented counselling group that focuses on exploring gender and/or sexuality within a collaborative and supportive environment. Each session has a theme. Discussions and activities are designed to help members reflect upon and learn about themselves and each other.

This group is for SFU students who would like to explore aspects of their gender and/or sexuality in a supportive community environment. By participating in this group, you may experience:

6-8 members can join the group each term and members are asked to attend all 7 sessions.

If interested, please email alex_vanderveen@hcs1.sfu.ca.

January 29 to March 19, 2026

Thursdays | 10:30 AM - 12:30 PM

Location: HCS Burnaby clinic located in the Maggie Benston Centre, SFU Burnaby campus. Room to be confirmed upon registration.

Registered Clinical Counsellor

alex_vanderveen@hcs1.sfu.ca

Alex is the counsellor (temporary) for 2SLGBTQIA+ students at HCS and provides both individual and group counselling. In their counselling practice, they integrate 2SLGBTQIA+-affirmative, trauma-informed, anti-oppressive, and process experiential/emotion-focused approaches. Alex aims to create a safe, inclusive space that fosters clients' well-being, self-understanding, and growth. Alex is a 2nd generation Dutch-Canadian person who also identifies as trans non-binary, queer, and neurodivergent. They completed an MA degree in Counselling Psychology at SFU and their research focused on affirmative counselling practice with 2SLGBTQIA+ clients.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


