F I

Contact the SVSPO: 778.782.7233 | sv-support@sfu.ca

December 6th marks the anniversary of the murder of 14 women at the l'École Polytechnique de Montréal in 1989. On that day, a man walked into an Engineering class at l’École Polytechnique de Montréal and committed a violent misogynist act. Following this event, Canada established December 6th as the National Day of Remembrance and Action on Violence against Women, a day to reflect on and take action against gender-based violence.

SFU Surrey campus: Thursday, December 4 2025

SFU Burnaby campus: Friday, December 5 2025

Join an in-person memorial to remember and honour the victims of this tragedy and to recommit to ending gender-based violence in our communities. This year, we are hosting the vigil and memorials before the National Day of Remembrance & Action on Violence Against Women, as December 6 falls on a Saturday. Holding the event earlier will allow more students, faculty, and staff to participate before the exam period is fully underway.

RSVP for the event

In the event of inclement weather, the memorial will be held virtually. 

To encourage and support SFU faculty members to initiate conversations on the National Day of Remembrance and Action on Violence Against Women in their classrooms, the Centre for Educational Excellence (CEE) has prepared a "classroom approaches" handout. We encourage you to invite your classroom to the SFU memorial happening on December 5th or to visit the campus displays, and continue the conversation on gender-based violence prevention. Download it below.

The 2025 December 6 Memorial is a collaborative effort among SFU Women in Engineering, the SFU Sexual Violence Support & Prevention Office, the Faculty of Applied Sciences, the School of Engineering Science, the School of Sustainable Energy Engineering, the SFU Human Rights Office, SFU Bullying & Harassment Central Hub, SFU Academic Women, the Office of the Executive Director, SFU's Vancouver campus and the SFSS Women’s Centre.


West Mall Centre (WMC) 1301
8888 University Drive
Burnaby, B.C.
Canada V5A 1S6

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


