I 

Join this gender-inclusive safe space for students who have been impacted by sexualized violence. This group meets weekly (for eight weeks) to discuss impacts and practice coping strategies over art-making and tea.

Participants will be welcomed each week and safety in the group will be established and prioritized. Participation can be helpful and lead to positive change, however, members will not be pressured to share personal experiences. All levels of participation will be respected. This is a trauma-informed group.

Participants may expect to learn about trauma and recovery, coping skills, and emotional regulation. A caring, compassionate and safe space will be held and created for the weekly sessions and discussions.  Shereen Khan is a registered clinical counsellor working with the Sexual Violence Support & Prevention Office, supporting students in the capacity on their journey of healing from the impacts of trauma.

From October 6 to December 2

Mondays | 1:00 - 2:30 PM

Sessions are held at the HCS clinic on the Burnaby campus - room to be confirmed upon registration.

Advanced sign up required. Location will be provided to students before the first session. Contact shereen_khan@sfu.ca to register for the upcoming sessions.

Registered Clinical Counsellor (SVSPO)
shereen_khan@sfu.ca
language Additional languages spoken: Urdu, Hindi, and beginner Punjabi and Arabic

Shereen is a Registered Clinical Counsellor with lived experiences as an immigrant, as an expat, and as an international student at various stages in her life and in many countries around the globe. Her approach to therapy is best described as caring, compassionate, and nonjudgmental. She works from a phenomenological approach to human life that support understanding the client’s worldview. She is drawn to multicultural, anti-oppressive and trauma-informed practices as she acknowledges that human beings are wired for connection. She utilizes strengths based, solution-focused therapy model to help clients to courageously achieve wellness. She works with evidence approaches such as CBT, DBT, and EMDR. Shereen has practiced counselling internationally, as a consultant and counsellor in the university, medical and private settings. She is a firm believer in the potential of all individuals to grow, become satisfied, and live fulfilling lives.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


