F I

Contact the SVSPO: 778.782.7233 | sv-support@sfu.ca

As part of Sexual Assault Awareness Month (SAAM) 2021, SFU and FIC students, faculty and staff were invited to submit short messages of hope, care, and support for people who have experienced sexual violence. Within two weeks, we received 50 submissions, which were translated into an image by graphic recorder and illustrator Adriana Contreras. The final artwork conveys the overall themes of the submissions along with representative messages. All 50 messages are listed on the back of the poster.

This project was inspired by Survivor Love Letter, an initiative founded by filmmaker and activist Tani Ikeda in 2012. The purpose of #dearsurvivorsfu is to not to trivialize the realities of trauma and recovery, but to offer this message to people who have experienced sexual violence: Wherever you are in your journey, we see you; we believe you; we are here for you.

We recognize that each person’s experience of sexual violence and journey of healing is unique, and that different forms of support work for different people. Some folks may find this poster validating and uplighting, whereas, others may find it unhelpful or even triggering. We invite you to engage with this image and the messages shared by the SFU and FIC community in ways that facilitate your well-being. We also support the preference to not engage with this resource.

If you feel negatively affected by the images in this poster, we invite you to connect with a case manager at the Sexual Violence Support & Prevention Office. We provide free, confidential support to SFU and FIC students, faculty and staff who have been directly or indirectly impacted by sexual violence.

To learn more about our comprehensive support and prevention services, please visit this webpage or contact us by email at sv-support@sfu.ca.

The #dearsurvivorsfu artwork is a visual translation of the major themes of the 50 messages that were submitted by SFU and FIC students, faculty, and staff. The design was developed collaboratively between SVSPO staff members and graphic facilitator and illustrator Adriana Contreras.

Each person is invited to find their own meaning(s) in the artwork, but we have also developed an interpretive guide for anyone who is curious about the elements of the image:

West Mall Centre (WMC) 1301
8888 University Drive
Burnaby, B.C.
Canada V5A 1S6

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


