I 

This Canvas course and seminar is designed to help participants understand different types of climate change distress and offer coping strategies. It is available by request only.

The climate is changing, and it can feel overwhelming at times. Are you feeling anxious about what you're seeing and experiencing, or about what others are witnessing and living through? This online seminar and Canvas course aims to provide strategies, coping skills, and a better understanding of climate change anxiety and grief.

This seminar enables participants to:

Online access

Anytime Access to the pre-recorded seminar is available through the Canvas page where there are handouts of the content. Other students will not be able to see who is registered in Canvas.

Jason Brown is an Ecological Chaplain based at Simon Fraser University's Multifaith Centre, where he provides guidance on existential issues. This role is not tied to any specific faith and is open to atheists as well. As an Ecological Chaplain, he organizes events and is available for in-person meetings to facilitate discussions and support exploration of ecological topics.

 
For more information, visit the Ecological Chaplaincy page on the Faculty of Environment or email him at jason_brown_3@sfu.ca.

For a nationwide resource, check out the Mental Health and Climate Change Alliance (link to an external site).

Additionally, several student clubs at SFU focus on climate change, including Embark Sustainability Society and SFU 350 (both links go to an external site).

Online access

Seminars are also available in person upon request only. To arrange a seminar, please email shona_adams@hcs1.sfu.ca.

Registered Psychologist #2558

Shona is a Registered Psychologist who trained as a Clinical Psychologist in Oxford, U.K.. She is a dual citizen who immigrated to Canada when she was 10 years old, previously living in South Africa, Thailand and Malaysia. She predominantly uses a Human Givens and a CBT approach and is a specialist in treating traumas and complex mental health disorders. She uses a strength-based solution-focused model, working collaboratively to help people understand their difficulties and learn different strategies to interact with them. She is humbly aware of her white privilege and is passionate with facilitating people to reach their full potential within a caring and empowering environment.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


