F T I

Given the geography and high elevation, the Burnaby campus is more susceptible to snow and severe weather that can affect campus operations. The Vancouver and Surrey campuses may also experience severe weather but are not as susceptible to operational disruptions as the Burnaby campus.

Before you head out to any SFU campus, get the latest information regarding conditions and class statuses:

Check your local media, Environment Canada, Emergency Info BC and your local municipality for additional supports during periods of severe weather.

Here are some tips to help manage the heat and reduce your personal health risk:

Working on campus? Learn how you can do your part to stay safe in the heat.

To learn more information on WorkSafeBC regulations, visit this page.      


 

Get the latest information regarding campus conditions and class statuses:

Please note most Vancouver and Surrey campus buildings have been built to include air conditioning (AC), however 611 Alexander does not have AC. Charles Chang Innovation Centre has AC in the 2nd floor RADIUS space and common areas.

If you're on Burnaby campus, the following buildings have cooling systems and study spaces for students:

Note: The above map links open up on your SFU Snap app and desktop browser. 

If you’re not on campus, check with your local municipality for information on community cooling centres: Burnaby, Surrey, Vancouver.

Should campus closure be deemed appropriate, communications will be sent to the SFU community: SFU Alerts channels. 


Should conditions dictate that individuals will need to remain on campus overnight, essential functions such as dining services will be available.

Should you be stranded at Vancouver or Surrey campuses, visit the Campus Security kiosks to access warming shelter locations until transportation services resume operation.

The university will rely on reports from Environment Canada, TransLink and observed conditions at each campus to determine if it is safe for the normal operation of university services.

Decisions related to class cancellations and campus closures are made by the SFU President as per GP 04 Unscheduled Cancellations of Classes.

8888 University DriveBurnaby, B.C.Canada V5A 1S6 

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

