F I

Contact the SVSPO: 778.782.7233 | sv-support@sfu.ca

\in-TAIR-uh-bang\ noun

A non-standard punctuation mark, combining the functions of a question mark (also known as an interrogative point) and an exclamation mark (also known, in printer’s slang as a ‘bang’), for use at the end of an exclamatory question.

"I absolutely loved playing this game. We often have surface-level conversations but this game digs deep, striking meaningful conversations with anyone you play with. My favourite aspect of the game was the filtering, since it makes sure that the game is played while respecting all players' boundaries and not making anyone feel uncomfortable. Can't wait to borrow this and play for a longer period of time."
--Anonymous participant

InterroBang is a game co-created by the SVSPO and game developer Tucky Aalto. It's a game for students about getting to know themselves and others. Through a series of questions and exercises, players will share their thoughts, ideas and experiences on a range of topics related to relationships, consent, boundaries, cultural differences, and sex positivity. Every card has been designed to evoke thoughtful discussion on both our differences and similarities, and to foster empathy and enlightenment between peers. The creation of the game was a direct response to survey data and feedback from students to explore these topics of relationships, consent, and culture in a fun and engaging manner.

Read about the development of InterroBang

To mark the one year anniversary of InterroBang, we have developed a Print & Play version of the game for you to download and print & play at home. This version of the game includes updates to cards that were done to align with feedback we received from the SFU and FIC communities over the last year.

Download the Print & Play

SFU and FIC students are invited to borrow an InterroBang card set to play with their friends, classmates, and peers. Faculty and staff are also welcome to borrow a set for their class or students in their department. 

SFU and FIC community members (students, faculty, and staff) may borrow an InterroBang set for up to 15 days. Failure to return the complete set on time and in good condition will result in not being able to borrow the set again for 3 months.

Complete the form below to request an InterroBang set.

Before game play, and as a trauma informed practice, players have an opportunity to anonymously select categories for exclusion that they do not feel comfortable discussing during the game.


InterroBang can be as structured or free form as your group desires it to be! Create your own format or use one of the suggested Gameplay Formats in our game instructions.

The game will be played in turns based on the Gameplay Format your group selected during Set-Up. Each turn consists of 4 phases.

It all started with a question: “How might we better support students from international pathways, to learn more about relationships and boundaries in an intercultural Canadian context?”

Inspired by the card game “We’re Not Really Strangers”, Precious Ile and Paola Quirós-Cruz, Educators from SFU Student Services set off on an adventure to create a prototype game, called Brave Hearts, that would answer this question. The creation of the game was a direct response to survey data and feedback from students to explore these topics in a fun and engaging manner.

We partnered with Kate Parnell and two classes of FIC students to brainstorm questions related to healthy relationships, consent, culture, and boundaries. Students were asked to suggest questions that they were interested in learning about. Questions from students were organized into 3 play levels - from general to more personal questions.

In March 2021, Precious and Paola hosted two creative feedback jam workshops to test the game play with SFU student leaders from diverse cultural backgrounds - from the Active Bystander Network (led by Paola Quirós-Cruz) and Global Student Centre (led by Michelle Lowe). Their feedback sparked meaningful conversations on how culture and family shape our relationships. Students’ ideas helped us refine the game questions and levels into simple categories and accessible language - using their own words.

And thus, Brave Hearts, a student-driven game was born! With a flexible roadmap designed for the next phases of game development by Precious, the SVSPO team worked with game designer, Tucky Aalto, to bring the game to life. The team created a second iteration of the game and tested the game with students - this time with new categories, new questions, and additional game play ideas. And thus, the game transformed into Interrobang!?!

As you play Interrobang, join us on a fun, learning adventure to get to know yourself and the people in your circle better. It’s all about curiosity and a willingness to listen and learn.

Story written by Precious Ile, MA, PMP
 Former SFU Student Services Staff | SFU Alumni | Educator & Entrepreneur

This project was made possible through the hard work and collaboration of students, staff, faculty, and community members at SFU and FIC.

West Mall Centre (WMC) 1301
8888 University Drive
Burnaby, B.C.
Canada V5A 1S6

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


