F I

Contact the SVSPO: 778.782.7233 | sv-support@sfu.ca

May 5th is National Day of Awareness for Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women, Girls and Two-Spirit People (MMIWG2S). As the SFU’s Indigenous Student Centre shared on their webpage, on this day we remember the people who have lost their lives to colonial, gender-based violence, and their families and communities that live daily with the grief of losing loved ones.

Join the Sexual Violence Support & Prevention Office and the SFSS Women’s Centre to honor Red Day Dress and remember Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women, Girls and Two-Spirit People (MMIWG2S) who have lost their lives to colonial, and gender-based violence.

Come by on Monday, May 5th from 12:00pm to 2:00pm to any of these locations:

Learn more about this day and find ways to make a commitment for MMIWG2S / Red Dress Day. The memorial table will be an interactive space of honour MMIWG2S, we invite you to bring a meaningful yet simple object to the memorial table such as a flower, a stone, a kind note, a leaf, or a little painting.

Hang a red dress in your window to support women who are on the frontlines fighting for all of us every day;

Attend a MMIWG2S Awareness Event to learn more; 

Read the final report from the National Inquiry on MMIWG2S; 

Donate to initiatives that support Indigenous women in our community:   

Jerilynn Webster, aka JB the First Lady, is a member of the Nuxalk & Onondaga Nations. She is a Vancouver-based hip hop and spoken word artist, beat-boxer, cultural dancer and youth educator. With four studio albums under her belt, JB sees her songs as a way of capturing oral history, and isn’t afraid to write lyrics that speak to challenging subjects like residential schools and missing and murdered Indigenous women.

To encourage and support SFU faculty members to initiate conversations on the National Day of Awareness for Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women, Girls and Two-Spirit People (MMIWG2S) in their classrooms, the Centre for Educational Excellence (CEE) has prepared a "classroom approaches" handout. 

Download the guide

The Indigenous Student Centre and the SVSPO have created a guide to SFU and community services that offer culturally relevant supports for Indigenous people who have been impacted by gender-based or sexualized violence.

Download this guide

CJSFM hosted an episode exploring the rise of intimate partner violence (IPV) across Canada, featuring an interview with Paola Quirós-Cruz, Educator at SFU’s Sexual Violence Support & Prevention Office (SVSPO). In the episode, they discuss the impact of IPV at the post-secondary level, as well as more information on the memorial hosted by the SVSPO and the SFU SFSS Women’s Centre on May 5 for the National Day of Awareness for Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women, Girls, and Two-Spirit People (MMIWG2S), also known as Red Dress Day.

Listen to the interview

The National Day of Awareness for Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women, Girls and Two-Spirit People (MMIWG2S) Awareness Table and Memorial is a collaborative effort with SFSS Women's Centre in support of the SFU's Indigenous Student Centre.


West Mall Centre (WMC) 1301
8888 University Drive
Burnaby, B.C.
Canada V5A 1S6

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


