I 

Affected by anxiety or depression? Worried about someone who is experiencing anxiety or depression? This two-hour seminar is aims to help people understand the symptoms and learn strategies to manage or help reduce them. There will also be information about how to access further support. Our very own Dr. Shona Adams, a Registered Psychologist working in SFU’s Health and Counselling Services (HCS), will be running the seminar.

Join us for a live, two-hour seminar that is both practical and informative, designed for anyone interested in learning more about anxiety and depression. The seminar will conclude with a 20-minute question-and-answer session with Dr. Shona Adams. You can attend either in person on campus or via Zoom.

During the seminar, there will be a Live Chat via Zoom, offering participants the opportunity to ask questions in real-time, discuss the content, and interact with the presenter. The Live Chat will be facilitated by HCS staff.

Register through Canvas to get more information, including the Zoom link and room number. You will also have access to a copy of the seminar slides, a pre-recorded version of the seminar, and other helpful resources under Canvas 'Files'. These resources are available until the end of the term, so feel free to print the ones you are interested in keeping. Additionally, you can share your feedback about the event in the "Quizzes" section.

Access resources

*Please note that you will have to click "enrol in course" to access the video and other resources in the Canvas files. Attendees' names will remain confidential and will not be visible to other participants registered for the seminar.

TBD

A pre-recorded version of the seminar is available on Canvas for those who wish to preview it. Handouts can be found in the Canvas files.

*Room location and Zoom link will be provided through the Canvas course announcements.

This is pre-recorded 2-hour practical and informative seminar for anyone interested in learning more about anxiety and depression.

On Canvas, you will also have access to a copy of the seminar slides and other helpful resources. These resources are available until the end of term, so feel free to print the ones you are interested in keeping. Additionally, you can share your feedback about the event in the "Quizzes" section.

Watch the seminar*

*Please note that you will have to click "enrol in course" to access the video and other resources in the Canvas Files.

Registered Psychologist #2558

Shona is a Registered Psychologist who trained as a Clinical Psychologist in Oxford, U.K.. She is a dual citizen who immigrated to Canada when she was 10 years old, previously living in South Africa, Thailand and Malaysia. She predominantly uses a Human Givens and a CBT approach and is a specialist in treating traumas and complex mental health disorders. She uses a strength-based solution-focused model, working collaboratively to help people understand their difficulties and learn different strategies to interact with them. She is humbly aware of her white privilege and is passionate with facilitating people to reach their full potential within a caring and empowering environment.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


