F I

Contact the SVSPO: 778.782.7233 | sv-support@sfu.ca

In the Fall of 2016, Simon Fraser University launched a university-wide process to develop a sexual violence and misconduct policy. Throughout this process, students, faculty and staff were encouraged to provide input and feedback on the policy, including definitions, jurisdiction and how the policy would be operationalized. This process, spearheaded by the Sexual Violence and Misconduct Policy Advisory Committee, came to a close on March 30, 2017 when the University’s Board of Governors approved SFU's Sexual Violence and Misconduct Prevention, Education and Support Policy, GP 44. 

British Columbia’s Sexual Violence and Misconduct Policy Act (2016) requires all post-secondary institutions within the province to review their sexual violence and misconduct policies every 3 years. March 30, 2020 marked the 3-year anniversary of the implementation of SFU’s Sexual Violence and Misconduct Policy. SFU’s review process began in August 2019 and consisted of two rounds of community consultations. The review came to a close on March 19, 2020 when the University's Board of Governors approved the revised Sexual Violence and Misconduct Prevention, Education and Support Policy, GP 44. A simplified language version of GP 44 is available here. 

Each year, the University President is responsible for presenting an annual report to the University Community outlining the implementation of the University’s sexual violence and misconduct policy.

Simon Fraser University has committed to creating an annual report outlining the University’s response to providing support, education and outreach to the University Community on sexualized violence prevention, intervention and support.


The following Annual Reports have been presented by the University President to the Board of Governors outlining the implementation of SFU’s Sexualized Violence Policy, GP 44.

Read the 2024 SFU Sexualized Violence Policy Annual Report

Previous reports:

West Mall Centre (WMC) 1301
8888 University Drive
Burnaby, B.C.
Canada V5A 1S6

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


