I 

Face your demons - literally!

D&WD is a Therapeutically-Applied Tabletop Roleplaying Game Group. It is a term-long counselling group that requires registration to join. During a session, participants play in a short Dungeons & Dragons campaign facilitated by a Registered Clinical Counsellor trained in the therapeutic application of tabletop roleplaying games. As this is a process-based group (meaning your growth and improvements result mostly from your interactions with others in the group), significant participation from participants is expected and encouraged!

This group can be of benefit for many reasons, but is especially geared towards students having some kind of difficulty with social functioning – social anxiety, neurodivergence, trouble initiating or maintaining relationships, loneliness, etc.

No prior knowledge of D&D is necessary!

In addition to experiencing less frequent and/or less intense social anxiety symptoms (on average, previous participants have improved by about 20%), students who participate fully in D&WD can expect to experience growth or improvement in the following areas of their social functioning:

Want to know more? Dungeons & Worry Dragons was featured on the Burnaby Beacon, CBC Calgary, the Portable Magic Dispenser podcast, and the Fearless Journeys podcast.

Email the facilitator to register: david_lindskoog@sfu.ca

Note: Once all eight spots are filled, no new participants will be able to register until the next term. Students who are interested are encouraged to contact David regardless, as a waitlist is kept for each term's group.

September 26 to November 28

Fridays | 10:30 AM - 12:30 PM

Sessions are held at the HCS clinic on the Burnaby campus—room to be confirmed upon registration.

Registered Clinical Counsellor
dlindsko@sfu.ca

David is a Registered Clinical Counsellor holding a MA in counselling psychology from Adler University. His approach integrates emotion-focused, narrative, and cognitive-behavioural therapy, and he prioritizes offering a grounded and caring atmosphere emphasizing safety and empathy. David is passionate about suicide prevention, social justice, career and professional development concerns, and the use of role-playing games in therapy.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


