F I

Contact the SVSPO: 778.782.7233 | sv-support@sfu.ca

Everyone deserves to feel physically and emotionally safe in their personal relationships, whether it's with family members, partners, or spouses. This page offers a place to learn more about relationship violence and how to get help if you think you or someone you know is in an abusive relationship. 

What is relationship violence?

Potential warning signs

Where to get help

Relationship violence can occur in various kinds of personal relationships, such as between:

Relationship violence can happen to anyone. It can take place in private or public spaces and between people of different or the same gender identities. Relationship violence can also be called domestic violence, intimate partner violence (IPV), dating violence, or family violence. 

Harm does not only have to be physical or sexual; it can include other forms of abuse in which the abusive partner seeks to dominate and control the other through intimidation and fear. Relationship violence may include various types of harm:

Although each situation and relationship is unique, there are similarities among abusive relationships. The following list may help you to recognize if you, or someone you know, is in an abusive relationship. Some warning signs of an abusive relationship could be:



We know how difficult it can be to ask for help if you feel unsafe in any relationships. The case managers at the Sexual Violence Support & Prevention Office are available to connect with you, learn about your experience, and help you to get the supports, information and resources that you need. We are able to assist with personalized safety planning, as well as referrals to both on and off campus resources.

We will not judge you or your circumstances, and we will respect your decisions. You are able to connect with us to simply ask questions and learn about options, and you can choose to engage with our services at the times when it feels right to you.

Connect with the SVSPO

To learn about other campus and community support services, visit our Get Help pages:

Help for Students

Help for Faculty and Staff

West Mall Centre (WMC) 1301
8888 University Drive
Burnaby, B.C.
Canada V5A 1S6

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


