For Your Workout

Muscle-building stacks

BCAAs for women

L-Citrulline supplements

Best testosterone booster

Nitric oxide supplements

Amino acid supplements

Weight Loss

Henry Meds

Found

DoFasting

Wegovy vs. Mounjaro

View all

Hair Growth

Hair loss treatments for men

Laser caps for hair loss

Keeps

Nutrafol

Topical finasteride guide

Keeps vs. Hims

Face & Body

Men's anti-aging creams

Latisse guide

Brightening creams

IPL devices

Lumi

View all

Therapy

Guide to online therapy

Betterhelp

Therapy terminology guide

Preparing for your first session

Betterhelp vs. Talkspace

Supplements

Ashwagandha supplements

Nootropics

CBD for sleep

Saffron supplements

Amanita Muscaria gummies

View all

Online Pharmacies

Hims

Hers

Roman

Wisp

Winona

Longevity

NMN supplements

Berberine supplements

CoQ10 supplements

NAD supplements

CBD for arthritis

Intimacy

Sexual health

ED treatments

BlueChew

Delay sprays

PE wipes

Hims ED

Phoenix ED device

Testing

Microbiome testing

At-home STD tests

Food sensitivity tests

DNA health testing

Viome

View all

Anatomy Explorer

Skeletal system

Muscular system

Cardiovascular system

Digestive system

Nervous system

Respiratory system

Urinary system

Integumentary system

All Anatomy Systems

Research

The Most Sleep-Deprived U.S. Cities

Which State Has the Most Stressful Work Environment?

Analysis of Geographic ED Trends

Metro Areas with the Highest STI Rates

Healthcare Disparities in the U.S.

How Much Do Men Know About Testosterone?

Diabetes Statistics in the United States

View All Research

Innerbody Labs

Innerbody Labs Home

Testosterone Support

Focus Support

Sleep Support

NAD+ Support

Shop all

Katie is a senior editor and writer at Innerbody Research. A former English professor, Katie earned her Ph.D. in English with a concentration in Rhetoric in 2015 from the University of Louisiana at Lafayette.

Nicole Arzt is a licensed marriage and family therapist who writes and reviews for Innerbody Research, focusing on mental health and cognitive therapy topics.



Mental health used to be a taboo subject but has received renewed focus over the last several years. In the United States, around 18% of adults — or about 60 million people — meet the criteria for a mental illness. Of that group, 4% live with a serious mental illness. But only about 43% of people with a mental illness in this country receive the care they need.1

Mental illness does not discriminate and affects people regardless of race, gender, sexuality, ethnicity, socio-economic status, and age. However, members of the BIPOC community (which stands for Black, Indigenous, and People of Color) face barriers to receiving mental health care. These barriers are undoubtedly complex. However, they likely stem from historic and systemic racism both inside and outside of healthcare communities, as well as economic, geographic, and linguistic hurdles.

If you or someone you love belongs to the BIPOC community, you may wonder how to overcome these barriers to access quality mental health care. We’ve compiled information and resources in this guide to help ease that burden.

Understanding the historical oppression and marginalization of the BIPOC community in the U.S. can help illuminate why conversations about mental health are essential. Luckily, many online resources help put these issues into perspective, including information from the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) — Identity and Cultural Dimensions — and Mental Health America’s BIPOC Mental Health fact sheets. Resources like these contextualize barriers to care like mental health stigma, access, and quality of care for the BIPOC community and inform decisions and policies moving forward.

To increase awareness, July was named BIPOC Mental Health Month, a time to discuss the challenges and needs of the BIPOC community regarding mental health care. These topics are important all year, but this campaign helps to highlight facts and statistics about groups that have historically been oppressed and marginalized in the U.S. and how this treatment impacts mental health and access to care.

Below, we’ve included some essential information about mental health care in specific BIPOC communities.

About 17% of Black and African American people in the U.S. live with a mental illness. This equates to about 6.8 million people.2 Financial issues, misdiagnosis, and systemic racism hinder Black and African American people from receiving quality mental health care. For example, Black and African American people who live below the poverty line are twice as likely to self-report mental distress than those who live above it.3 Research shows that poverty closely correlates with chronic stress, depression, and relationship problems, all of which can exacerbate mental illness. As of 2018, one in five Black/African American people lives below the poverty line.4

Frequently, Black and African American people do not receive psychiatric services as frequently as white Americans for mental health issues. And they are more likely to be diagnosed with a psychiatric disorder like schizophrenia than white people with the same symptoms, who are instead diagnosed with more easily treatable mood disorders.5 Systemic racism and dismissal of certain cultural factors may be reasons for this effect. Adults in this community are also more likely to report symptoms of depression — like overwhelming sadness and hopelessness — than their white counterparts, even though Black and African American people receive treatment less often.6

Suicide has also risen in the Black and African American population in recent years. In 2019, it was their second leading cause of death in those aged 15-24.7 Between 2008-2018, suicidal thoughts rose in the Black and African American community from 6% to 9.5%. And 1.5% of Black and African American people made a suicide attempt in 2008 compared to 2.4% in 2018.8

About 13% of the Asian American population in the U.S., or 2.2 million people, live with a mental illness.2 Mental health disorders are on the rise among Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders (AAPI), with the number of AAPI people reporting severe mental illness increasing from 2.9% in 2008 to 5.6% in 2018.9

Cultural pressures seem to dictate Asian American hesitancy to access mental health care, including avoiding stigma and family judgment. Because of the standards set by family, society, and cultural beliefs, Asian American women particularly report low self-esteem and tend to remain silent about issues like depression when they witness it in family members or themselves.10

About 8.9 million Latinx and Hispanic people in the U.S. live with a mental illness, which is about 15% of the Latinx and Hispanic population.2 For this community, religion and culture play a pivotal role in attitudes toward seeking mental health care. Some Latinx and Hispanic people may see mental health issues as resulting from crises of faith or sinful behavior as opposed to diagnosable and treatable illnesses.11 There are also attitudes within Latinx and Hispanic communities that having a mental illness or even conversing about mental illness is a source of shame or embarrassment for the family. This also causes fewer people to seek treatment.12

Issues stemming from immigrant status and language barriers also result in a lack of quality care for Latinx and Hispanic communities. Both adults and young people experience mental anguish because of the treatment of immigrants in the U.S. This includes pressures to assimilate into American culture.13 Furthermore, concerns about deportation remain a legitimate fear for many immigrants. Because of a shortage of Spanish-speaking mental health care providers, Latinx and Hispanic people often can’t access care. If they do, they are evaluated differently in English and often don’t receive the care they need.13

About 830,000 Native and Indigenous people live with mental health issues, about 23% of the Native and Indigenous population.2 And even though they comprise about 2% of the population, they have the highest rates of substance use disorders. Arguably, Native and Indigenous people experience the most severe barriers to mental health care because of their general lack of access to resources. This is a direct result of the U.S. government’s past and current treatment that has caused many Native and Indigenous people long-term mental health distress, including PTSD and other complex problems.

In fact, Native and Indigenous people experience serious psychological distress 2.5 times more often than the general U.S. population.3 More than double the amount of Native and Indigenous people between 15-19 in the U.S. die by suicide each year compared to the white population.14

Cultural and religious influences also keep Native and Indigenous people from pursuing mental health care. Research shows that Native and Indigenous people are more likely to seek healing from spiritual leaders within their communities than medical professionals.15

Historic and systemic racism impacts the BIPOC community’s ability to access quality mental health care. While it would be impossible to cover every aspect of how white supremacy functions as a barrier to care, we’ve provided a few statistics and other information revealing some of the most obvious ways it has impacted mental health care.

Consult Mental Health America’s publication The State of Mental Health in America or the American Psychiatric Association’s Mental Health Disparities: Diverse Populations for more information about racism’s impact on mental health.

The BIPOC community’s lack of access to mental healthcare services is a complex issue that has been discussed in the healthcare field for many years. Barriers to care include systemic issues that result from the racialized history of mental health care in the U.S., resulting in BIPOC community members not receiving mental healthcare as frequently as their white counterparts.16

Other barriers to care include BIPOC community members:

There are many more issues that BIPOC community members face when trying to access care. This explains why access to online services and culturally competent providers is crucial to the mental well-being of this community.

Here are some important facts to know about barriers to care:

Changes at the policy level and how care is delivered are necessary to close the mental health care gap.26 Researchers advocate for intersectional approaches to care that acknowledge and combat historical oppression and systemic racism. These approaches could broaden the availability of care and help more members of the BIPOC community get the mental health resources they need.27

Until that happens on a large scale, there are online resources available for the BIPOC community to begin conversations around mental health and seek culturally competent help. We’ve outlined many of those resources below.

Your privacy is important to us

While speaking to a mental health professional might be the most effective way to improve your mental health, consulting online resources for support and inspiration can also help you gain perspective. There are many online resources that assist members of the BIPOC community in finding peace of mind and improving their overall well-being. These resources include information on empowerment, life coaching, and conversations about mental health in general.

Some virtual mental health resources that discuss the BIPOC community as a whole include:

There are also some programs sponsored by the U.S. government that contribute to the mental health and well-being of the BIPOC community, including:

While it would be impossible to include every virtual mental health resource available online, we’ve compiled a list of some important ones below.

Aside from accessing therapy, support groups, or online resources, taking time for self-care is essential for mental health. Self-care can look like a variety of things: meditation, art projects, reading, a hot bath — anything that helps you feel centered and refreshed. There are a variety of online resources that help you cultivate a self-care practice, and many of them are geared toward the BIPOC community.

Once you’ve decided to pursue therapy, you may wonder if the therapist you find will understand your unique struggles. In fact, a lack of cultural competence in mental health care providers can lead to misdiagnosis or underdiagnosis. This may come from language barriers or a lack of training, empathy, or understanding of cultural representations of symptoms.1

Having a mental health care professional understand and meet your needs is critical to receiving quality care. Luckily, many online directories and therapist-matching services are dedicated to helping BIPOC community members find culturally competent therapists. Here are some of those organizations:

There are also directories and matching services that focus on specific segments of the BIPOC community. Find some of those services below.

The cost of therapy is a significant barrier for many people, including members of the BIPOC community. In addition, many are without health insurance to mitigate costs. As of a 2018 survey, the following members of each community did not have insurance:

Several organizations offer free sessions and financial help for those who need it.

If you are experiencing a crisis, many of the resources in this guide are not right for you. You should call 911 or go to your local emergency room if it’s an emergency. Another option in a crisis is to call or text a helpline. There are dozens of helplines available 24/7 to help you during a mental health crisis. We’ve included several important ones below. You can also consult our guide to Suicide Prevention Facts and Resources.

Two helplines created specifically for members of the BIPOC community include:

Sources

Innerbody uses only high-quality sources, including peer-reviewed studies, to support the facts within our articles. Read our editorial process to learn more about how we fact-check and keep our content accurate, reliable, and trustworthy.

Mental health disparities: Diverse populations. (2017). American Psychiatric Association. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.psychiatry.org/File%20Library/Psychiatrists/Cultural-Competency/Mental-Health-Disparities/Mental-Health-Facts-for-Diverse-Populations.pdf

BIPOC mental health. (2022). Mental Health America. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.mhanational.org/bipoc-mental-health

Health, United States. (2017). Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/hus/hus17.pdf

Semega, J., Mohanty, A., Creamer, J., & Kollar, M. (2021, October 8). Income and poverty in the United States: 2018. Census.gov. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.census.gov/library/publications/2019/demo/p60-266.html

Mental health disparities: African Americans. (2017). American Psychiatric Association. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.psychiatry.org/File%20Library/Psychiatrists/Cultural-Competency/Mental-Health-Disparities/Mental-Health-Facts-for-African-Americans.pdf

Black and African American communities and mental health. (2022). Mental Health America. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.mhanational.org/issues/black-and-african-american-communities-and-mental-health

Mental and behavioral health - African Americans. (2020). The Office of Minority Health. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://minorityhealth.hhs.gov/omh/browse.aspx?lvl=4&lvlid=24

2018 national survey on drug use and health: African Americans. (2020). Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.samhsa.gov/data/sites/default/files/reports/rpt23247/2_AfricanAmerican_2020_01_14_508.pdf

2018 national survey on drug use and health: Asians/Native Hawaiians and Other Pacific Islanders (NHOPI). (2020). Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.samhsa.gov/data/sites/default/files/reports/rpt23248/3_Asian_NHOPI_2020_01_14.pdf

National Asian Women’s Health Organization. (2001). Breaking the silence: A study of depression among Asian American women. San Francisco, Calif: National Asian Women’s Health Organization.

Caplan S. (2019). Intersection of cultural and religious beliefs about mental health: Latinos in the faith-based setting. Hispanic Healthcare International: The Official Journal of the National Association of Hispanic Nurses, 17(1), 4–10. https://doi.org/10.1177/1540415319828265

Jimenez, D. E., Bartels, S. J., Cardenas, V., & Alegría, M. (2013, October). Stigmatizing attitudes toward mental illness among racial/ethnic older adults in primary care. International Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3672370/

Mental health disparities: Hispanics and Latinos. (2017). American Psychiatric Association. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.psychiatry.org/File%20Library/Psychiatrists/Cultural-Competency/Mental-Health-Disparities/Mental-Health-Facts-for-Hispanic-Latino.pdf

Suicides among American Indian/Alaska natives - National violent death reporting system, 18 states, 2003–2014. (2019, March 5). Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/67/wr/mm6708a1.htm

Mental health disparities: American Indians and Alaska Natives. (2017). American Psychiatric Association. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.psychiatry.org/File%20Library/Psychiatrists/Cultural-Competency/Mental-Health-Disparities/Mental-Health-Facts-for-American-Indian-Alaska-Natives.pdf

Perzichilli, T. (2022, February 7). The historical roots of racial disparities in the mental health system. Counseling Today. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://ct.counseling.org/2020/05/the-historical-roots-of-racial-disparities-in-the-mental-health-system/

Mental illness doesn’t discriminate, so why do BIPOC communities have difficulty accessing care? (2020, July 31). Jefferson Center - Mental Health and Substance Use Services. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.jcmh.org/mental-illness-doesnt-discriminate-so-why-do-bipoc-communities-have-difficulty-accessing-care/

Black/African American. (2022). National Alliance on Mental Illness. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.nami.org/Your-Journey/Identity-and-Cultural-Dimensions/Black-African-American

Hispanic/Latinx. (2022). National Alliance on Mental Illness. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.nami.org/Your-Journey/Identity-and-Cultural-Dimensions/Hispanic-Latinx

Asian American and Pacific Islander. (2022). National Alliance on Mental Illness. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.nami.org/Your-Journey/Identity-and-Cultural-Dimensions/Asian-American-and-Pacific-Islander

Indigenous. (2022). National Alliance on Mental Illness. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.nami.org/Your-Journey/Identity-and-Cultural-Dimensions/Indigenous

Mental and behavioral health - American Indians/Alaska Natives. (2020). The Office of Minority Health. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.minorityhealth.hhs.gov/omh/browse.aspx?lvl=4&lvlid=39

Chiu, M., Amartey, A., Wang, X., & Kurdyak, P. (2018, July). Ethnic differences in mental health status and service utilization: A population-based study in Ontario, Canada. Canadian journal of psychiatry. Revue Canadienne de Psychiatrie. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6099776/

Ward, E. C., Wiltshire, J. C., Detry, M. A., & Brown, R. L. (2013). African American men and women’s attitude toward mental illness, perceptions of stigma, and preferred coping behaviors. Nursing Research. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4279858/

Lin, L., Stamm, K., & Christidis, P. (2018). How diverse is the psychology workforce? Monitor on Psychology. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.apa.org/monitor/2018/02/datapoint

Alegría, M., Alvarez, K., Ishikawa, R., DiMarzio, K., & McPeck, S. (2016, June 1). Removing obstacles to eliminating racial and ethnic disparities in behavioral healthcare. Health Affairs. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.healthaffairs.org/doi/10.1377/hlthaff.2016.0029

Langwerden, R. J., Thompson, M. G., & Wagner, E. F. (2021). Multidimensional conceptualization of identity and psychopathology: Assessing mental health disparities from an intersectional and dimensional framework. Personality and Mental Health. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34132042/

Native and Indigenous communities and mental health. (2022). Mental Health America. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.mhanational.org/issues/native-and-indigenous-communities-and-mental-health

Latinx and Hispanic communities and mental health. (2022). Mental Health America. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.mhanational.org/issues/latinxhispanic-communities-and-mental-health

Asian American and Pacific Islander communities and mental health. (2022). Mental Health America. Retrieved May 11, 2022, from https://www.mhanational.org/issues/asian-americanpacific-islander-communities-and-mental-health

Despite alarming statistics, suicide is preventable. Our guide covers suicide, who it affects, and how to help.

No matter who’s being bullied, you can do something to stop it. We’ve gathered prevention resources to help.

Get the Innerbody Newsletter

Be the first to know about our latest reviews and biggest discounts

No spam! Your privacy is important to us.

Copyright © Innerbody Research 1997 - 2025. All Rights Reserved.

Innerbody Research does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. You must consult your own medical professional.

