This page requires an SFU Computing ID. If you normally sign into Canvas with a non-SFU email address, please sign in at https://canvas.sfu.ca/login/canvas.Read the complete Canvas Privacy Protection Notice. By using Canvas you confirm that you have read, understand and agree to this notice.

This page requires an SFU Computing ID. If you normally sign into Canvas with a non-SFU email address, please sign in at https://canvas.sfu.ca/login/canvas.

Read the complete Canvas Privacy Protection Notice. By using Canvas you confirm that you have read, understand and agree to this notice.



CAPSLOCK key is turned on!




Protect your PasswordSFU will never request our users provide or confirm their Computing ID or password via email or by going to any web site. SFU users should ignore all messages requesting Computing ID and/or password information, no matter how authentic they may appear. More information on phishing.Always check that your browser shows a closed lock icon and that the URL of this page starts with https://cas.sfu.ca and not some other address.If you're not sure, do not enter your password.

SFU will never request our users provide or confirm their Computing ID or password via email or by going to any web site. SFU users should ignore all messages requesting Computing ID and/or password information, no matter how authentic they may appear. More information on phishing.

Always check that your browser shows a closed lock icon and that the URL of this page starts with https://cas.sfu.ca and not some other address.

If you're not sure, do not enter your password.

IT Services


                Strand Hall 1001
                8888 University Drive
                Burnaby, B.C.
                Canada. V5A 1S6
            

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səl̓ilw̓ətaʔɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

