Drug checking is a quick, free and confidential way to learn more about what is in your drugs. Drug checking technicians can analyse your sample using FTIR and test strips and help answer questions you may have about your results.

Drug checking services are offered across BC in a number of locations.

When you bring a sample for testing you will be asked:

Staff will take only a small sample for analysis, about the size of half a matchstick head.

Analysis takes about five to fifteen minutes. Drug checking services are free and confidential.

All data collected is only about the drug itself and no identifying information is tracked or kept. Any contact information provided is destroyed after results have been received.

Results will be communicated by a technician and if you have any questions or concerns about the results, they can discuss with you.

Drug checking can tell you a lot about what is in a drug sample, but it cannot tell you everything.

 

All drug-checking technologies have limitations. To get the best analysis, most drug-checking services use more than one technology.

 

Be aware that drug checking cannot catch every substance that may cause unwanted or adverse outcomes. When you get your drugs checked, the technician can explain your results and what might be missed.

 

✅ Identify up to 5-6 substances that may be present in a sample from a large reference library

✅ Determine whether a sample contains fentanyl or fentanyl analogues with a fentanyl test strip

✅ Determine whether a sample contains benzodiazepines with a benzodiazepine test strip

✅ Help reduce risk by providing information about what in a sample, allowing people to make better-informed decisions about their substance use and health.

 

❌ Detect substances present in small amounts (less than about 5-10% of the total sample composition) using the FTIR

❌ Determine the exact percentages of what is in a sample

❌ Identify new or unknown substances that are not in the reference libraries

❌ Always distinguish between specific substances with a similar chemical make-up (e.g. 2C- family, fentanyl analogues)

❌ Determine if the whole drug intended for use is free of adulterants or contaminants

❌ Determine the purity of a sample

➡️ Have a buddy or use at an Overdose Prevention Site if available. If using alone, try NORS.

➡️ Start low, go slow.

➡️ Use one drug at a time.

➡️ Have an overdose plan.

➡️ Carry naloxone.

➡️ Be aware of your health and tolerance.

➡️ If you choose not to use your drugs after you get them checked, the technician can safely dispose of them at the testing site.

 

Find more harm-reduction information at Toward the Heart.

Dive deep into drug checking results in our interactive data visualization.

Download special drug checking reports, technology reports and bulletins.

Download monthly overviews of substances detected in each health authority.


                        The BCCSU Drug Checking Program supports a network of drug checking services across BC with training, data stewardship and operational guidance.                    

With gratitude, we acknowledge that the physical office of the BC Centre on Substance Use is located on the traditional, ancestral and unceded territories of the xʷməθkwəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh (Squamish), and səl̓ílwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh) Nations, and that the reach of our work touches the territories of all 198 First Nations in B.C.

© BCCSU Drug Checking2025  | Site by
                     Sparkjoy Studios | Log in 

