F T I

Last updated July 8, 2025

SFU’s people are central to the university's academic mission and success. Together, faculty members and staff uniquely fulfill the academic mission by delivering and supporting leading-edge research and teaching the leaders of tomorrow. Over the past few years, SFU has received a significant amount of feedback and has made commitments to advance opportunities that foster an environment where people can do their best work. 

We are delighted to share the next stage of that journey: SFU's People Plan, a blueprint for transforming the faculty and staff experience for the next five years (2023-2028). The Plan is a clear and practical framework, designed to listen to the needs of the SFU community and support the delivery of our academic mission. 

The plan includes six key themes, 23 early actions and four working groups to guide success and support faculty and staff at SFU. It is aligned with SFU’s existing and future plans and priorities, including What’s Next: the SFU Strategy, the Equity Compass, the SFU-Aboriginal Reconciliation Council and Pathways reports, and the Strategic Sustainability and Climate Action Plan. It is designed to enable our faculty and staff to deliver on our Academic Plan 2019-2024 and Strategic Research Plan.

DOWNLOAD THE PEOPLE PLAN

READ THE FULL REPORT

Between November 2022 and March 2023, we heard from many individuals and teams about what mattered most to them. We hosted 16 meetings and roundtable discussions that were attended by more than 500 faculty members, People Leaders and staff, and we received 1,360 written comments. We heard what people liked, what they felt was missing, what they wanted us to consider in developing the plan, and what their key priorities were for both the organization and their teams. The engagements resulted in rich feedback that we themed and incorporated into the plan.

Groups engaged

Roundtables

By direct invitation

Open Conversations

Advertised online and by email (What's On newsletter)    

8888 University DriveBurnaby, B.C.Canada V5A 1S6 

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


