I 

Studying in a new country presents various challenges. At Health & Counselling, international students can find appropriate support options, including one-on-one assistance or group sessions to connect with others.

Studying in a new country is a big transition. Whether you're looking for assistance with managing school stress, finding housing, understanding documents, or understanding Canadian services, the Transition Case Manager is available for one-to-one support in person or virtually. You can either schedule an appointment or check Ricky's drop-in availability.

 Connecting with the Transition Case Manager is only available to students currently residing in BC.

The Transition Case Manager helps with:

When connecting with students, the Transition Case Manager will listen to the student's case, offer support, connect the student with resources, and hope to facilitate positive solutions and outcomes. The Transition Case Manager will also explain that there are limitations to what can be done, so that expectations are reasonable.

Transition Case Manager
ricky_tu@sfu.ca

Monday - Friday
9:30am -  12:30pm
1:30pm -  4:30pm

Burnaby Campus, HCS - MBC 0101

The Transition Case Manager is here to support students from international pathways (both undergraduate and graduate) and their transition into and out of SFU. Transition can mean many things as students can face an array of challenges while at SFU. Some of the areas the Transition Case Manager can support students in are:

The Transition Case Manager’s physical office is located on the Burnaby campus, but the service is accessible and available to any SFU student on any campus. Appointments can operate virtually or in-person.

A case manager can help improve communication skills.

The Transition Case Manager can recommend different resources on campus which can help you experience better mental health and gain learning skills.

The Transition Case Manager can listen to your needs and provider support during difficult times.

The Transition Case Manager is supportive and will help you build applicable strategies for success.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


