The Institute for the Advancement of Higher Education (AdvancED) is Vanderbilt University’s hub for teaching excellence and educational innovation, engaging faculty and academic leaders to deliver high quality learning experiences across all modalities. We provide on-demand expertise, a collaborative space for experimentation and robust program development services that help faculty upskill and adapt to meet the evolving needs of today’s learners. By driving faculty innovation in pedagogy and supporting the university’s strategic priorities, AdvancED plays a pivotal role in strengthening Vanderbilt’s impact and value in a rapidly changing educational landscape. 

Explore our Impact Report.

Whether you teach in person, hybrid or online, AdvancED provides consulting and technological support to help you pursue pedagogical excellence at every career stage, design student-centric experiences that transform learning in any context, and innovate best practices that encourage discovery.



 



Partner With Us



Vanderbilt’s mission is to challenge the limits of what’s possible and develop immersive, innovative classroom experiences. AdvancED is here to partner with you to transform your classroom, providing resources and a space to foster a dynamic, interactive classroom environment for student success.  

Learn more about scholarly & innovation teaching. 

Extend your impact beyond the classroom and empower diverse learners across the globe. AdvancED will partner with you to collaboratively design and launch high-impact, cutting-edge learning experiences that transcend traditional educational boundaries.

Learn more about digital and lifelong learning. 

Learn from experts shaping the future of educational technology at Vanderbilt to prepare for the demands of tomorrow’s learner. AdvancED provides both technical and pedagogical expertise across campus to ensure faculty are set up to design tech-enabled learning experiences and achieve success in the classroom.  

Learn more about educational technology. 

Whether you’re a faculty member looking for teaching resources or an academic partner seeking to develop an online or hybrid program, AdvancED is here to support you every step of the way. With a robust team of dedicated experts in their field, we’re here to help you pursue excellence and design high-impact, student focused experiences that transform learning. 



Partner With Us



Sign up today to be the first to hear about upcoming events, online initiatives, and noteworthy stories. Please sign up using your Vanderbilt email address. 



Sign Up Now



Nashville, Tennessee 37240

615-322-7311 • Contact Us

Vanderbilt University’s Online Privacy Notice

Vanderbilt University is committed to the principle of equal opportunity. Vanderbilt University does not discriminate against individuals on the basis of their race, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, color, national or ethnic origin, age, disability, military service, or genetic information in its administration of educational policies, programs, or activities; admissions policies; scholarship and loan programs; athletic or other University-administered programs; or employment. Accessibility information. Vanderbilt®, Vanderbilt University® and the Vanderbilt logos are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University. Site Development: Digital Strategies (Communications and Marketing.) © 2025

