F I

Over 300 faculty members and instructional staff across SFU are developing resources to foster well-being in learning environments. These resources include in-class activities, teaching practices, content to share with students, and much more.

explore resource library 

"It is widely accepted that health and well-being are essential elements for effective learning" (El Ansari and Stock, 2010).

When we support well-being in our learning environments, we can better support our students in reaching academic success. Read about the history and research that informs this project.  

Read the research

The Well-being in Learning Environments project is a network of SFU faculty members and instructional staff committed to creating conditions for well-being in learning environments. See examples of actions they’re taking.

This project is an initiative of SFU Health Promotion and the CEE (Centre for Educational Excellence.

See our network

As part of the Student Experience Initiative, SFU Health Promotion, Health and Counselling Services and  Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies developed a faculty and graduate student version of the Well-being through the Supervisory Process: A Guide to Action. Contributions from SFU faculty champions and graduate students make this framework an excellent tool for conversation.

View the guides

Need help fostering health and well-being in remote or online learning environments? 

Find practical tips, strategies and resources using our Guide to Embed Well-Being into Remote Learning Environments.

View the guide

Looking for easy tips on supporting student well-being?

Explore our Guide to 10 Conditions for Well-being in Learning Environments with quick ideas you can implement today.

View the guide

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


