The workplace environment may contribute positively to mental well-being.  However, at times, the workplace may also contribute to mental illness either as a direct source of stress, depression and anxiety, or by exacerbating issues that exist in other parts of one’s life.

If not well managed, workplace-related mental health issues can lead to increased rates or levels of illness, and may result in absenteeism, tension and conflicts between colleagues, deteriorating employee performance and reduced morale.

 

Awareness, understanding and knowledge of mental health issues may help you move towards achieving health and a sense of emotional well-being. Listed below is information provided by Manulife’s mental health specialists and Homewood Health regarding symptoms and treatments for different mental health conditions.

 

For professional assistance to help you and your family members, you can use your benefits to access counselling in two ways by:

If you notice your colleague or staff member is in distress and may need support:

If you, or someone you know requires assistance and support with substance use issues:

 

Wellness Together Canada

Visit wellnesstogether.ca/en-CA for articles, courses, wellness assessments and counselling for mental health and substance use issues.

Mood Disorders Association of BC   

Visit www.mdabc.net or call 604-873-0103 (in the Lower Mainland) or 1-855-282-7979 (in the rest of BC) for resources and information on mood disorders and support groups in your area.

Canadian Mental Health Association, BC Division

Visit www.cmha.bc.ca or call 1-800-555-8222 (toll-free in BC) or 604-688-3234 (in Greater Vancouver) for information and community resources on mental health or any mental illness. 

Employee and Family Assistance Program (EFAP)

Visit SFU's EFAP site to access confidential, professional assistance through counselling, coaching and e-courses to help you or your family members resolve problems that affect your personal and work lives.

BC Partners for Mental Health and Addictions Information 

Ministry of Mental Health and Addictions

Visit wellbeing.gov.bc.ca for well-being, mental health and substance use supports and resources. 

HealthLink BC

Call 811 or visit www.healthlinkbc.ca to access free, non-emergency health information for anyone in your family, including mental health information. Through 811, you can also speak with a registered nurse about symptoms you’re worried about, or speak with a pharmacist about medication questions.

BC Bereavement Helpline   

Visit www.bcbh.ca or call toll free at 1-877-779-2223 for confidential service that connects you to grief  and loss support services within BC.

2025 Newsletters

2025 - January - The Weight of Winter and Negative Thoughts

2025 - February - Understanding Different Types of Eating Disorders

2025 - March - The Impact of Trauma and Adversity on Mental Health

2025 - April - Coping with Life’s Unexpected Turns: Managing Chaos When Changes Are Beyond Your Control

2025 - May - Embracing hope and healing during a fertility journey: managing anxiety and stress with compassion

2025 - June - Understanding The Complex Relationship and Invisible Battle: How PTSD and Addiction Are Connected

2025 - July - Understanding How Domestic Abuse Affects Our Mental Well-being

2025 - August - Understanding and Managing Chronic Pain

2025 - September - Navigating Relapse in Addiction Recovery

2025 - October - Living with Agoraphobia: Strategies to cope and heal 

2025 - November - Managing and Expressing Negative Emotions 

Health and Well-Being Disclaimer

The well-being information on this website is provided as information only and should not serve as a substitute for the consultation, diagnosis, or treatment from qualified physicians, mental health care providers, or other health care providers. Suggested links and resources are intended to educate, but not to replace SFU policies, procedures or advice from health professionals.

Facebook
Twitter
YouTube

Hours 8:30am - 4:30pm (Monday - Thursday)
Telephone: 778 782 3237
Business Fax: 778 782 3449

People, Equity and Inclusion
Simon Fraser University
Strand Hall, Room 2170
8888 University Drive

