I 

My SSP (Student Support Program) offers free, confidential 24/7 mental health support for all students. Counselling can be accessed through the free My SSP app or by calling 1.844.451.9700 (also available outside North America at 001.416.380.6578).

As a staff, faculty, or student leader you can:

Promote My SSP by sharing contact information for My SSP and Health and Counselling Services

Download the My SSP app on your phone and encourage students do the same

Assist students in accessing My SSP, provided you have their consent, by doing the following: 

Assisted Referral: help students connect with My SSP for the first time

Outreach Request: ask My SSP to call the student

Call 1.844.451.9700 anytime to request a staff/faculty consultation to receive guidance and advice from My SSP on particular issues (i.e. supporting students that may be in distress, withdrawn or isolated, and those with communication difficulties or language barriers)

Chat with an advisor through the My SSP app for advice on navigating ways to reach out to a student in need

Contact SFU Health and Counselling Services during office hours for assistance or to receive a consultation with HCS

Every decision we make in our roles can impact health and well-being and positively contribute to a healthy campus community. 

A healthy campus community is one where the people, processes, policies, environments and spaces contribute to well-being and success for all. Watch a short video (3:34min) illustrating how all systems within post-secondary are connected to health and well-being.

SFU’s Healthy Campus Community (HCC) vision: “Simon Fraser University is a healthy campus community where the people, programs, practices, policies, and spaces foster well-being, supporting campus members to thrive and succeed at SFU and beyond.”

As part of the Healthy Campus Community initiative, well-being is embedded within the following areas for action: 

Learning and working environments

Policies and processes

Personal growth and development 

Social connection and community engagement

Physical spaces

Services and supports

Collaborative and innovative projects exist related to: 

Well-being through Physical Spaces

Well-being in Policy & Settings

Well-being in Learning Environments

Thriving in Graduate School

Learn more about the Healthy Campus Community initiative and the areas for action.

Learn more

As a staff, faculty or student leader, you may directly interact with students. Creating a supportive community involves caring and responsive members that are prepared to assist and support someone in distress who may be experiencing mental health challenges. 

Learn how you can support students in distress, identify signs and assist a student in need by connecting them to available support services and resources. 

A critical incident typically involves a traumatic event that creates a strong emotional reaction. It may interfere with the ability to manage day-to-day activities or have a negative impact on those involved. A supportive community looks out for its members and responds to critical incidents with empathy and compassion. Learn more about critical incidents and how to respond and support those involved.

Your health and well-being also matters. You must care for yourself in order to be able to care for others. Explore health and well-being resources and support services for SFU faculty and staff.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


