UVic is committed to providing a safe and inclusive living, working and learning environment for people of all genders in our community as part of our broader commitment to creating an inclusive space in which everyone feels a sense of belonging. This commitment is expressed through strategies and priorities in UVic’s Strategic Plan, Equity Action Plan and the suite of plans and policies that describe expectations for behaviour and services on campus. 

Faculty are responsible for creating a space where students of all genders can safely participate in all aspects of the learning experience. Some important ways to do this include:

Take some time to learn about trans, non-binary and Two-Spirit experiences and concerns (see below and in the "Be an Ally" section).

Include gender-inclusive information in the syllabus. This can include:

Share your pronouns at the outset of class when you introduce yourself, and let students know that they can do the same, or come speak to you privately about how they would like this addressed in class, if at all.

When planning for the first class, consider options for taking attendance since the official class list may not reflect chosen names for trans, Two-Spirit and non-binary students. Students can indicate a “preferred name,” on their Netlink ID profile, but not all students may have provided this information yet. If you need to take attendance at the first class, some options include:

Once you are aware of a preferred name, ensure that you use it whenever you need to refer to a student by name, in writing or verbally.

Don’t use gender to divide students into groups for discussions, projects, etc. Consider criteria such as the question they chose for homework; whether they moved to Victoria for school or not; different majors; favourite colours; finding someone they haven’t worked with; etc.

Offer examples that include diverse forms of gender identity and expression. Avoid examples that reinforce the idea that there are two binary and discrete genders or that genders have clear and unvarying characteristics.

Avoid making assumptions about the identities of your students, such as asking someone for a “man’s perspective” on a given topic, or expecting a trans, Two-Spirit or non-binary student to be the point person to field questions or lead conversations around gender identity.

Be careful about initiating dialogue around gender identity in the classroom. When there are students who are not supportive of trans, Two-Spirit and non-binary people, it is very difficult to hold these conversations in a way that does not further marginalize or create a dangerous space for some students. If you do need to have such a conversation, first consider the goal of the conversation to see if it is linked to your learning outcomes. Similar to initiating conversations in which the identity of any marginalized group is being discussed, make sure that you let students know in advance about the discussion, that the purpose of the conversation is clear, that you provide concrete data points for discussion, that you frame the issue appropriately, that you do not single out any trans, Two-Spirit and non-binary individuals in the classroom, and that you set parameters for civil, respectful discourse. Be aware that even if you do all these things, the experience still may be traumatic for trans, Two-Spirit and non-binary persons in the classroom. Approach such conversations with care, and always describe and offer supports in multiple venues, formats and times for students to access.

Particularly if your course content addresses gender, prepare to manage conflict around the topics of gender identity and transition when it comes up. This includes knowing your responsibilities to support trans, Two-Spirit and students who may become distressed by these conversations and what resources are available for support. It also means holding these conversations in context, for instance, seeing homophobic or transphobic values within Indigenous communities as a direct impact of colonization and European influence, and ensuring that this is taken into consideration and acknowledged as necessary.

If you have questions or concerns relating to your experiences or upcoming participation in classes, field trips, practicums, co-op terms, off-site events or any other activities, you have a number of options. You can use whatever option(s) feel most appropriate to you.Talk about your concerns with the professor, lab instructor, event organizer, or whoever is in charge of organizing the activity.

For a question or concern with an academic course, contact the chair of the department (by email, phone, or request an appointment) to discuss.

For a challenge in a co-op placement, you can contact your co-op advisor.

When things get complicated, or for any situation, you can have a confidential consultation with someone at Equity and Human Rights (EQHR). Our advisors can help you:

Where appropriate, our advisors can facilitate conversations or information-sharing on behalf of a student (or any other member of the campus community). You are welcome to bring a support person with you to any conversations with EQHR. 

You can consult with the Office of the Ombudsperson. The ombudsperson is an independent, impartial, and confidential resource for undergraduate and graduate students and other members of the University of Victoria community. The ombudsperson helps resolve student problems or disputes fairly. For issues that fall within their jurisdiction, they can:

The Anti-Violence Project provides support, education and resources to all students, staff, faculty and other community members who have been impacted by gender-based violence, whether by experiencing it directly, supporting someone who has, or by causing harm themselves. Their services can be accessed during drop-in hours or by appointment, and are provided by staff and volunteers with training and lived experience supporting and being trans, non-binary and Two-Spirit folks.You can approach some of the UVSS Advocacy groups for support.

If you are approached about a concern, here are some points to keep in mind.

See more

Equity & Human Rights University of Victoria Sedgewick Building C128 Victoria BC  Canada eqhr@uvic.ca 250-721-8488  More contact information

View all UVic social media

