I 

As SFU staff and faculty, caring for your own health and well-being is important. SFU is actively engaged in promoting a supportive and healthy work environment for every employee, and provides many resources to support you. 

One of the underlying principles in SFU’s Strategic Vision describes a commitment to “build and sustain a work environment that is equitable, supportive, rewarding and enjoyable”. 

Below are some helpful resources you may want to explore or access to enhance your own health and well-being.  

Explore mental health information and resources and well-being apps and recordings. 

Make use of the various health benefits to maintain your well-being. Review your eligibility using the benefits summaries.

Reach out to SFU’s Employee and Family Assistance Program for confidential and professional assistance to support you and/or your family resolve challenges related to health, work or personal life.

Set up a safe workspace using ergonomic guides or by consulting the Ergonomics team. 

View various learning and development opportunities to build your skills and support your career development.

Practice your faith, meditate, or connect with a faith-based group or chaplain at the Multifaith Centre.

Find a universal/all-gender washroom on campus if you prefer to use gender-inclusive washrooms.

Consult with the Wellness and Recovery Office for resources related to employee health, as well as assistance and accommodations related to ongoing illness and disability. 

Contact Safety and Risk Services to share concerns or incidents that you may have encountered or use their Safe Walk program to have a member of Campus Public Safety safely escort you from one part of campus to another. 

Reach out to the Sexual Violence Support and Prevention Office (SVSPO) to access confidential information and support.  

Connect with the Human Rights Office to learn about your rights or to report discrimination and/or harrassment.


If you have questions or additional needs, please contact SFU Human Resources or Faculty Relations.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


