F I

Learn more about how to support students in difficulty, referrals to resources, and tips for taking care of yourself. This is a companion document for faculty, instructors, staff, and TA/TMs to the SFU Supporting Students in Distress Response Guide.

Consult with the Office of Student Support, Rights & Responsibilities (SSRR): At any point you can to reach out to SSRR to consult with the office when concerns about a student’s safety, well-being or impact upon others is present. They will work with you to develop a way to approach or respond. 

Distress is a noticeable change in the way an individual usually thinks, feels, responds, and behaves.

Drop in grades, participation, and/or attendance

Emotional reactivity or irritability

Isolation or withdrawal from usual interactions

Open conflict with others

Frequent requests to talk or refusing to talk

Drastic behaviour or mood change

Changes in personal hygiene suggesting neglect

All of the above could be signs of distress if you notice a sudden or gradual shift in the way someone usually behaves or responds. We all experience and show signs of distress differently. 

Your role as a faculty, instructor, staff member, or TA/TM in a situation where a student is in distress includes four steps: Recognize, Check-in, Refer, Follow-up. 

"I’ve noticed you haven’t been attending class regularly, are you okay?"

Recognize the signs that a student may be struggling with something. We all show signs and indicators of being in distress differently. If you’re unsure about what a student has said or think it would be helpful to consult with someone, there are resources here to support you.

"That sounds so tough, I am sorry to hear you are going through such a hard time."

Listen in an open, caring and non-judgmental way when asking open-ended questions. Creating a space where the person sharing feels comfortable and safe is important. Try to empathize with the person and how they feel.

"I think it may be helpful to speak to someone at Health & Counselling. How about we call them together and get an appointment set up?"

After listening, paraphrase what you may have heard from the other person. Offer resources/referrals as needed and work towards finding long-term support. Remember, you do not need to solve their problems or diagnose them.

"I’d really like to hear how things are going with you. Would you feel comfortable checking back?"

Follow-up with the individual after some time has passed to ask them how they are doing and if they have had a chance to connect with a formal resource. If they have not, that is ok! Encourage them to reach out again and ask if there is anything you can do to make the connection easier.

Research shows that 10% of SFU students consider suicide, and about 2% attempt suicide every year. Hopelessness, emotional pain, and burdensomeness are some of the most common reasons people consider suicide.

Warning signs are indicators that a person may be considering suicide or planning a suicide attempt.
These include:


Protective factors include:


If you are worried about someone:

You could be one of several people to support a student in distress - you are not expected to do this by yourself. There are people and services on campuses to assist you in supporting with students in distress. The following resources are available for determining the seriousness of the situation and how quickly it needs to be addressed, as well as determining a plan for responding.


You can help by clarifying what help looks like and assuring people that services are confidential.

If a person considering suicide is unable to keep themselves safe for any reason, this is an urgent referral and requires an immediate response (get them to help right away, call 911, and don’t leave them alone).

If a person is confident in their short term safety, this is a non-urgent referral and the goal is to help get them connected to a mental health professional. Acknowledge that is the student’s choice to take the referral and reinforce that taking that step may help them reach positive change.

For non-emergency situations where you are unsure about what a student has said or if you think it would be helpful to consult with someone, the following resources are available to you: 

Connect with someone for advice on what to do. Refer to this Identity-Based Support webpage for additional resources you can refer students to.

Tel: 778-782-4615

Hours: 9:30 - 4:30 PM, Monday to Friday

Receive 24/7 assistance to support a student.

Tel: 778-782-9456 or 778-782-6601

Email: ssrr@sfu.ca

Reach out to the Sexual Violence Support and Prevention Office (SVPSO)for confidential support, information, and advice about sexual violence.

Tel: 778-782-7233

Email: sv-support@sfu.ca

Share your concern with someone at the Office of Student Support, Rights, and Responsibilities who can identify the appropriate type of support for the student.

For emergency situations where you or someone else is in immediate danger, call 911 and if at SFU also call Campus Public Safety at 778-782-4500 to help direct emergency services. Contact SSRR to provide an update and a Case Manager will reach out to the student to follow up.

Supporting students who are experiencing personal challenges or difficulty can bear a lot of weight on the person offering support. It is important to prioritize your own well-being on an ongoing basis. Being well will also enable a person to be better able to support others. 

The following are a few reminders about boundaries and caring for yourself when you are in a helping role:

Additional pathways for self-care include the following resources:

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


