I 

SFU Health & Counselling has a strong commitment to diversity and to the training of counselling and clinical psychology pre-doctoral students. We are a highly regarded training site, offering professional training at the master’s and doctoral levels. See below for pre-doctoral residency placements and practicum training opportunities in counselling.

On this page:

Part-time, unpaid practicum opportunities available to Masters level students in counselling and clinical psychology programs. The experience is designed to enable students to further develop their counselling skills, interests, and professional identities working with an integrated team of counselling, medical, and health promotion professionals. Student will work with a range of clinical concerns: from depression, anxiety, neurodiversity, stress, relationships issues, trauma, and more. A team training environment will allow for a rich and supportive learning experience. You will work with a qualified primary supervisor, the practicum coordinator and have access to a full compliment of clinical staff on site.

Duration: Mid-April to end of August 2026
Commitment: Five-month, four days per week at the Burnaby Campus
Caseload: 12-16 client hours per week
Application deadline: December 1, 2025.

Duration: September 2026 to April 2027
Commitment: Eight-month, 2.5 to 2.75 days per week at the Burnaby campus
Caseload: 8-10 client hours per week
Application deadline: January 30, 2026.


If you have any questions or would like to learn more about our unique and diverse counseling practicum opportunities, please feel free to reach out! You can email lyndsays@sfu.ca for more information. Additionally, please refer to the Counselling Practicum Overview document for specific dates and deadlines.


Lyndsay Cotterall, RCC-ACS
Tel: 778-782-4615
Email: lyndsays@sfu.ca  

David Lindskoog, RCC-ACS
Tel: 778-782-4615
Email: dlindsko@sfu.ca

2026/2027 Counselling Practicum Overview PDF

Health & Counselling at Simon Fraser University (SFU) is offering flexible pre-doctoral psychology practicum placements to doctoral students in counselling psychology. It is ideally suited for students looking for additional practicum hours primarily in interventions prior to applying for residency programs. Our advanced generalist program provides either an 8 or 12 month part time placement or a 5 month summer intensive placement, with some flexibility in the length of placement. Full supervision will be provided, with the required one hour of supervision for every four hours of therapy provided by a B.C. Registered Psychologist, with at least half of the supervision being individual supervision. The placements typically starts at the beginning of September, with the summer intensive practicum starts at the beginning of April.

Our practicum placement provides training in the core functional skill areas found in the Schedule H requirements of College of Psychologists of British Columbia. The goal of the program is to provide practicum students with an opportunity to experience a diverse and comprehensive set of learning and professional activities to enhance their counselling knowledge and skills. Pre-doctoral practicum students will gain the kind of broad generalist experience that will prepare them to work in a future residency program.

Ideally, we are looking for pre-doctoral students who are already masters level clinical counsellors and have some experience in risk assessment. At a minimum we are looking for those who have successfully completed their foundational pre-doctoral coursework in intervention and assessment.  

Completed applications for practicum placements should include:

PLEASE NOTE: Applications should be sent via email to adassist@sfu.ca.

Reference letters should be sent by the reference writers via email to adassist@sfu.ca.

An online link to the mock demonstration videos should be enabled to be viewed by shona_hcs@sfu.ca, Angela_post@sfu.ca and Jennifer_chalmers@sfu.ca, and sent directly to the above emails as well as adassist@sfu.ca.

Friday February 7, 2025, at 5:00 PM Pacific time (or open until filled)

For questions about the submission, please email Dr. Shona Adams at shona_hcs@sfu.ca.

Tuesday, February 25, 1:30 to 4:30 PM and Tuesday, March, 1 1:30 to 4:30 PM

For any inquiries about the program, please email the Pre-doctoral Program Director at shona_hcs@sfu.ca.

Simon Fraser University is committed to the principle of equity in employment, and welcomes applications from all qualified students. Ranked by respected national surveys as one of Canada’s top three comprehensive universities for almost 20 years.

NOTE: Successful applicants will be required to present a Criminal Records Search attesting they are cleared to work with minors and members of vulnerable populations, prior to commencing the residency. The period covered must include the entire residency.

Attention: Administrative Assistant
Health and Counselling Services
Simon Fraser University
MBC 0164, 8888 University Drive
Burnaby BC  V5A 1S6

Dr. Shona Adams, R.Psych. #2558
Director of Pre-Doctoral Training
Phone: 778-782-4615
Email: shona_hcs@sfu.ca

PLEASE NOTE THAT WE ARE NOT ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR 2025-2026

Health & Counselling Services offers two full-time pre-doctoral psychology residency placements to doctoral students in Counselling or Clinical Psychology. HCS is a well-established training site for counsellor- and psychologist-trainees and our entire team contributes generously to their professional growth and development. Every year we have a large cohort of about six master’s level counselling practicum students and two pre-doctoral level residents, who become a convivial and supportive professional community to each other. Our site is a primary care site, with an integrated health and counselling centre. This allows residents the opportunity to work collaboratively with psychiatrists, physicians, mental health nurses, and clinical social workers and learn primary care skills.

Our advanced generalist primary care training program is completed full-time over a 12-month time frame, and prepares residents to serve diverse clients across a broad range of settings. Pre-doctoral residents complete at least 1,600 hours of supervised training. HCS serves SFU students with the aim of helping them cope with life’s challenges so that they are able succeed at university. Our student population is comprised of students from every region of Canada and all over the world. They are diverse in terms of culture, socio-economic background, sexual orientation and gender identity, neurodivergence, age and ability. Students present with a broad range of presenting problems, including goal setting, stress, cultural adjustment, grief and loss, identity development and major mental health concerns. Mental health concerns include depression, anxiety, ADHD, substance use, BPD, bipolar disorder, mild to moderate eating disorders. Residents thus gain generalist experience that will prepare them for independent practice or to work in almost any practice setting.

Residents provide rapid access assessment and intervention, risk assessments, crisis intervention, individual and group therapy, supervision to master’s level trainees, and integrate cultural competency in all aspects of their work. We aim to have an anti-oppressive lens to all aspects of our work, and to thoughtfully consider and employ our ethical commitment to the CPA’s Response to the Truth and Reconciliation Report. We provide a stepped care approach and a brief therapy model, including a slightly longer brief therapy for more complex situations. HCS residents routinely work 40 hours per week with recognized holidays, vacation and sick leave. Please note that there is currently no financial compensation available for the residency. There is time allocated for research and to develop advocacy competencies. We also provide generous support for professional development to supplement that training that we provide on-site.

Our didactic training program is delivered by our psychologist team with a focus on professional practice competencies, ethics, diversity, case conceptualization, assessment, treatments, and supervision training. We strive to provide a trauma-informed, anti-oppressive and neurodivergent-affirming care. Throughout the year, residents are invited to consider the human rights and social justice implications for psychological practice and to develop systemic perspective and advocacy skills. Each Resident will complete an advocacy project of their choice that is relevant to their work. Our residency program provides training in the core functional skill areas in accordance with CPA accreditation guidelines and the Schedule H requirements of College of Psychologists of British Columbia.

Our training site is located “on the Hill” at the SFU Burnaby campus, giving residents access to all the amenities of Canada’s number one ranking Comprehensive University with its stunning mountain views and brand-new amenities. SFU’s focus on community engaged learning and research that generates “real-world change” makes it an intellectually stimulating environment in which to work.

Eligible applicants must have completed the following prior to the start of residency:

Please include the following in your application:

You will need to submit the following documentation:

Monday December 9, 2024.

For questions about the submission, please email Dr. Shona Adams at shona_hcs@sfu.ca.

The afternoon of January 7 and January 14, 2025

Applications will be reviewed by the Director of Training, along with the selection committee. While we appreciate all the applications received, only those who are short-listed will be contacted.

Dr. Shona Adams, Director of (Psychology) Training, shona_hcs@sfu.ca

Dr. Shona Adams, R.Psych., Director of (Psychology) Training, shona_hcs@sfu.ca

Simon Fraser University is committed to the principle of equity in employment, and welcomes applications from all qualified students. Ranked by respected national surveys as one of Canada’s top three comprehensive universities for almost 20 years.

NOTE: Successful applicants will be required to present a Criminal Records Search attesting they are cleared to work with minors and members of vulnerable populations, prior to commencing the residency. The period covered must include the entire residency.

2023-2024

2021-2022

2020-2021

2019-2020

2018-2019

2017-2018

2016-2017

2015-2016

2014-2015

2013-2014

2012-2013

2011-2012

2010-2011

2008-2009

2007-2008

2005-2006

2004-2005

2002-2003

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


