Connect with Canadian-licensed doctors and nurse practitioners online, whenever or wherever you need them.

Whether it's a new cough, ongoing anxiety, or a question you’ve been meaning to ask, we’re here with advice, prescription renewals, and support that helps you feel in control of your health.

Every message, appointment, and check-in is designed to provide the care you or a family member needs.

1

2

3

Get medical treatments for what you need today and how you want to feel tomorrow.



Weight Health



Erectile dysfunction



Anxiety





See all treatments

Michelle Van Raay

Family Physician

Dr. Van Raay is a dedicated family physician based in Calgary, Alberta, with over 20 years of experience in family practice. After two decades of providing in-person care, she has transitioned to offering full-time virtual healthcare, allowing her to connect with and support patients across Canada. Dr. Van Raay is deeply passionate about preventive care and believes in the transformative power of nutrition and exercise in maintaining overall health.

Mazin Yousif

Family Physician

Dr. Yousif completed medical school in Baghdad, Iraq in 1998. He practiced until 2005 then moved to Canada where he has practiced in Newfoundland from 2007-2009 then Ontario from 2009 until now.

Veronique Poirier

Nurse Practitioner

Veronique has been working as a nurse practitioner for the past 5 years. She has gained extensive experience in diverse settings, including community health and virtual care, which has broadened her expertise and allowed her to reach and support a wide range of patient needs. As an advanced practice nurse, Veronique is committed to providing excellent, compassionate care to all individuals and ensuring access to the highest standard of healthcare for all patients.

Joe Fragapane

Family & ER Physician

Dr. Fragapane practices Emergency and Family medicine for the Cree Nation in the native territories of the James Bay Quebec. As a physician, he mainly focuses in emergency rural medicine and pediatrics. His practice is broad, encompassing complex medical as well as psycho-social issues, in the isolated regions of northern Quebec with difficult access to diagnostic testing and specialized services. He graduated from McGill Medical School in 2012 and from the Faculty of Electrical and Computer Engineering in 2005.

Golbarg Araghi

Family Physician

Dr. Araghi has been practicing medicine for 17 years. She graduated from McGill University medical school in 2002 and completed her family medicine residency at the University of Toronto. She did a fellowship in low risk obstetrics shortly after graduating. She has been practicing since 2004 and has provided care for patients of all ages. She is a great addition to our team!

Michael Verbora

Family Physician

Dr. Verbora practices family medicine in Toronto and specializes in student health. He received his Bachelor of Science with Honours from the University of Windsor, his Masters of Business Administration from Odette School of Business, and his Doctor of Medicine from the University of Western Ontario. Dr. Verbora completed specialty training at the Toronto Western Hospital while acting as the OCFP (Ontario College of Family Physicians) Chair of the Residents Committee.

Robert Solomon

Dermatologist

Dr. Solomon is a staff physician at St. Michael's Hospital, a lecturer at U of T, and a member of the Miami Society for Dermatology and Cutaneous Surgery. He's recognized for his expertise in Dermoscopy and has extensive experience in Teledermatology, having done 10,000+ cases in the past few years.

Got care for my condition without sitting in an ER for hours clogging it for people with actual emergencies. My Maple visit was fast and very professional. You people are wonderful!—Lloyd

As a 46-year-old woman with 3 kids this was the best medical experience. Walk-in clinics can be daunting with long waits and viruses floating about. This was seamless and professional.—Twohey A.

I very much appreciate the efficiency and care taken by Maple physicians. I have used the service several times and each time I was left with the feeling I had been well taken care of!—Wendy P.

I’d been to 3 walk-in clinics but they were full. My co-worker mentioned Maple to me and I’ll now be recommending it to everyone. Was able to choose to speak with the doctor by phone or video call. I could even send my prescription off to my pharmacy using the app. A 10/10 in my books!—Jasmin P.

Got connected to a NP within 20 mins and she explained the condition in detail and also about the prescribed medicine as well. Really friendly and good at listening and communicating.—Amal

We don't have a family doctor, so Maple is for our family. We tapped in for our son’s ear infection. The NP was great and we had a prescription within 30 minutes. Can't beat that!—Michael L.

When I called 811 they wanted me to go to be checked out at our hospital, but there’s an 8 hour wait time so I’m very grateful to have the service. My doctor quickly diagnosed my condition and prescribed medication.—Ally N.

Very helpful. They were there for me in a time of need with the shortage of doctors, and continue to be there for me while waiting for a new family doctor.—Richard J.

Maple works wonderful especially for non-emergency issues. I don't have a doctor and trying to get to a clinic can be difficult. Maple makes it so convenient.—Laurie W.

Get 24/7 medical care, paediatric primary care, proactive health screenings, direct access to specialists and more — all with one membership.

For you

For your family

For your future

Become a member today.

What’s included in your membership:

Looking for business solutions?

Get personalized virtual care that works around your business. When your team can access care 24/7, recovery times get shorter, costs go down, and everyone stays healthier.



What is Maple’s membership?

Our membership covers virtual care for families, including the primary account holder's spouse and any dependents under 18 who share the same primary residence.

For patients in eligible provinces, the membership to Maple includes:



What types of doctors and specialists are available on Maple?

Maple provides individuals and their families in Canada access to a trusted network of qualified and licensed doctors, nurse practitioners and paramedical specialists from across Canada. These are the same reliable healthcare professionals you’d encounter in person. Our network of primary care providers also undergo a rigorous selection process to ensure the delivery of dependable healthcare services.



What should I expect from my online visit?

We want you to have the best possible experience using Maple. Since speaking with a primary care provider online can be a little different than the in-person visits you might be used to, we’ve compiled some tips to help save you time and get you the care you’re looking for.

When you’re ready to speak to a care provider:

If you are having trouble adjusting your account information, please reach out to our team or visit our Help Desk to learn more.



What can I use Maple for?

Use Maple for common health concerns you’d take to a walk-in clinic, such as a cold, stomach issues, UTI, strep throat and more, fast and from home.

Depending on your province and account plan, you can also request to see a specialist,like a dermatologist, endocrinologist or mental health physician, without a referral.

While online doctors and nurse practitioners can treat many illnesses, there are requests that may not be suitable for virtual care. If the doctor or nurse practitioner thinks your condition requires in-person care, they may tell you to go to a clinic for a hands-on examination to safely treat your concerns.



When should I not use Maple?

You should not use Maple in the case of a medical emergency. If you’re in need of urgent, life-saving care, you should call 911.

There are also some non-urgent requests where our doctors and nurse practitioners might not be able to help online, such as those for controlled medications, or disability form completion. Learn more.



What can I use the $80 credit on? How do I find it?

The $80 credit can be applied to any specialty visit. It will be automatically applied to your statement at checkout, so you don’t need to take any additional steps to use it.

Please note that the credit is not applicable to monthly subscription fees and these credits expire monthly. They do not accumulate or roll over. 



What happens if I exceed my allotted visit per day?

There is a limit of one visit per patient on a membership per day. Once a patient has completed their daily visit, they will not be able to request another visit on the same day.



How does Maple ensure the security and confidentiality of patient information?

At Maple, we proudly prioritize privacy as a cornerstone of our virtual care services. We strictly adhere to privacy and healthcare legislation in Canada, such as PIPEDA and PHIPA regulations, to ensure patients' personal and health information remains completely private and safeguarded.

Our policies and consent processes are designed to be simple and easily understood, empowering individuals with control and a clear understanding of their healthcare journey. When using our services, a patient’s session is protected by a comprehensive security infrastructure and stringent data policies. Patients also retain full control of their personal health information, medical records and test results at all times. Our approach is reinforced by consultations with leading experts, guaranteeing robust policy frameworks that are reviewed at a regular cadence.



Can people access Maple from outside Canada?

Yes, Maple provides uninterrupted access to healthcare for travelers both within Canada and around the world, maintaining the reliability and efficiency of our support system regardless of location.

However, it’s important to note that prescriptions, sick notes, and lab work are issued at the healthcare provider’s discretion and can only be provided when patients are physically located in Canada.



What type of payment do you accept?

We accept all major credit cards, including AMEX cards, as well as Google and Apple Pay.






                Services							


                Resources							


                Company							


                Specialties							


                Business							


                Care delivery							


                Conditions							


                Medications							


                Locations							


                Regions							


                Compare Maple to							

© 2025 Maple. All rights reserved.

Please share your location to continue.

Check our help guide for more info.

